===== PAGE 1 =====
(Re-)Imag(in)ing Price Trends∗
Jingwen Jiang
Department of Computer Science
University of Chicago
Bryan Kelly
Yale University, AQR Capital
Management, and NBER
Dacheng Xiu
Booth School of Business
University of Chicago
Abstract
We reconsider the idea of trend-based predictability using methods that ﬂexibly
learn price patterns that are most predictive of future returns, rather than testing hy-
pothesized or pre-speciﬁed patterns (e.g., momentum and reversal). Our raw predictor
data are images—stock-level price charts—from which we elicit the price patterns that
best predict returns using machine learning image analysis methods. The predictive
patterns we identify are largely distinct from trend signals commonly analyzed in the
literature, give more accurate return predictions, translate into more proﬁtable invest-
ment strategies, and are robust to a battery of speciﬁcation variations. They also appear
context-independent: Predictive patterns estimated at short time scales (e.g., daily data)
give similarly strong predictions when applied at longer time scales (e.g., monthly), and
patterns learned from US stocks predict equally well in international markets.
Keywords: convolutional neural network (CNN), image classiﬁcation, transfer learning,
machine learning, technical analysis, return prediction
∗We are grateful for comments from Ronen Israel, Serhiy Kozak (discussant), Ari Levine, Chris Neely
(discussant), and seminar and conference participants at Washington University in St. Louis, University
of Oxford, University of Rochester, Rutgers Business School, Boston University, Chinese University of Hong
Kong, ITAM Business School, Singapore Management University, National University of Singapore, University
of Science and Technology of China, SFS Cavalcade, Society of Financial Econometrics, China International
Conference in Finance, Society of Quantitative Analysts, and INQUIRE UK. AQR Capital Management is a
global investment management ﬁrm, which may or may not apply similar investment techniques or methods
of analysis as described herein. The views expressed here are those of the authors and not necessarily those
of AQR.
1
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 2 =====
Nevertheless, technical analysis has survived through the years, perhaps because its
visual mode of analysis is more conducive to human cognition, and because pattern
recognition is one of the few repetitive activities for which computers do not have
an absolute advantage (yet). Lo et al. (2000)
1 Introduction
A large literature investigates the ability of past prices to forecast future returns, producing
a handful of famous and robust predictors including price momentum and reversal. The
philosophical perspective underpinning these analyses is most commonly that of a hypothesis
test. The researcher formulates a model of return prediction based on price trends—such
as a regression of one-month-ahead returns on the average return over the previous twelve
months—as a test of the weak-form eﬃcient markets null hypothesis.
Despite some researcher’s arguments otherwise, it is diﬃcult to see in the literature a clearly
articulated or theoretically motivated speciﬁc alternative hypothesis. Said diﬀerently, the
price-based return predictors studied in the literature are by and large ad hoc and discovered
through human-intensive statistical learning that has taken place behind the curtain of the
academic research process.
In this paper, we reconsider the idea of price-based return predictability from a diﬀerent
philosophical perspective founded on machine learning. In particular, we emphasize that there
is potentially much to learn about the behavior of price-based predictive patterns. Given
recent strides in understanding how human behavior inﬂuences price patterns, it is reasonable
to expect that prices contain subtle and complex patterns about which it is diﬃcult to develop
speciﬁc testable hypotheses. We devise an open-minded statistical learning approach to elicit
the return predictive patterns that underly the data. This philosophy moves the research
focus to tracing out the empirical landscape, and away from testing speciﬁc and often ad hoc
alternative hypotheses, in the hope of gathering a more informed view of the data from which
better theories and more pointed testable hypotheses may be developed.
Perhaps the most daunting challenge to the machine learning perspective on price-based
return prediction is settling on a methodology to achieve a balance between two countervailing
concerns. On one hand, we prefer a method that is ﬂexible enough to ﬁnd potentially complex
predictive patterns. On the other hand, we prefer a method that is tractable and constrained
enough so that we can interpret those patterns in order to inform future theory.1 To negotiate
this delicate tradeoﬀ, we make two research design choices that together result in successful
inference of new return-predictive patterns in past prices. First we represent historical prices
1In addition to interpretability, we also favor more tractable and constrained methods to ensure that they
can be reliably estimated from available data with manageable computational cost.
2
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 3 =====
as an image, and second we model the predictive association between images and future
returns using a convolutional neural network (CNN). These are conjugate choices that work
together and enhance each other. We describe the logic behind each choice in turn, beginning
with the CNN.
The input to a CNN is typically an image, and in our setting the image is a plot of past
market information (open, high, low, and close prices and trading volume) represented as a
2D matrix. A CNN is designed to produce forecasts from an image without requiring the
researcher to ﬁrst decide how to convert the image into predictive features. Instead, the
CNN automates the feature extraction process. In a given “layer” the CNN spatially smooths
image contents to reduce noise and accentuate shape conﬁgurations that correlate with future
returns. This smoothing operation is applied recursively by stacking multiple layers together,
which gives the CNN its ﬂexibility for capturing a vast range of predictive patterns (and earns
it the synonym “deep learning”). In the last layer, the numeric pixel values from each position
in the smoothed image become the ﬁnal predictor set. At a high level, this is similar to more
traditional kernel-based data ﬁlters used in regression analysis. But the CNN does not simply
ﬁx the set of smoothing ﬁlters. It instead estimates the ﬁlters that best detect shapes and
other attributes of the images that are most predictive of the target variable. In short, we
use a CNN due to its ability to automatically extract predictive signals from raw input data,
which makes it ideally suited to elicit patterns that underly ﬁnancial markets but that are
likely too complex to be hypothesized based on existing theories.
Our research design embeds 1D time series data in ahigher dimensional space, representing
it as a 2D image, before bringing it to predictive analysis. Why is it beneﬁcial to encode
market data as an image rather than directly modeling the 1D data with a time series model?
The ﬁrst reason is that the leading CNN architectures are custom crafted for image analysis.
Therefore, to enjoy the CNN’s beneﬁts of automated signal generation, it is useful to represent
price data in the format naturally ingested by the CNN, i.e. as an image. Second, representing
time series as an image allows the model to focus on relational attributes of the data that
would be diﬃcult to tease out with time series methods. It is the same basic logic for why
humans illustrate patterns graphically rather than with lists of numbers. If a human can
more readily detect patterns in images by consuming an entire data matrix through a single
visualization, a statistical pattern recognition algorithm may beneﬁt from it as well. Third,
the process of imaging price and volume data converts all assets’ data histories to a comparable
scale. We show that this particular re-scaling choice has large beneﬁts for prediction in the
panel of stocks.
Our empirical analysis revolves around a panel prediction model for US stock returns from
3
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 4 =====
1993 to 2019. We train a panel CNN model to predict the direction (up or down) of future
stock returns. That is, in each training sample, we estimate a single model with a ﬁxed
structure and set of parameters that produces forecasts for all individual stocks. The data
input to this model are images depicting price and volume (daily open, close, high, and low
prices, daily trading volume, and moving average price) over the past 5, 20, and 60 days. The
output of the CNN is a set of stock-level estimates for the probability of a positive subsequent
return over short (5-day), medium (20-day), and long (60-day) horizons. We use CNN-based
out-of-sample predictions as signals in a number of asset pricing analyses.
Our main empirical ﬁnding is that image-based CNN predictions are powerful and robust
predictors of future returns. The CNN achieves out-of-sample classiﬁcation accuracy (predict-
ing positive versus negative subsequent returns) with an accuracy in excess of 53% for one
month returns. This is a statistically signiﬁcant improvement over the accuracy implied by
standard technical signals such as momentum and short-term reversal. We provide a heuristic
calculation to illustrate how seemingly small gains in forecast accuracy, of even 1% to 2% like
we ﬁnd using the CNN, can translate into large performance gains for trading strategies based
on these predictions. 2
Next, we show directly how the CNN model’s forecasts translate into out-of-sample port-
folio performance. We sort stocks into decile portfolios using image-based CNN forecasts and
track the returns of a decile spread H-L portfolio. We ﬁrst consider a monthly return strategy.
Image-based decile spreads perform extraordinarily well, earning annualized out-of-sample
Sharpe ratios as high as 2.4 for equal-weight portfolios and 0.5 for value-weight portfolios.
We benchmark this performance against three simple strategies: 2-12 momentum (MOM),
1-month short-term reversal (STR), and 1-week short-term reversal (WSTR). Of these, the
closest competitor to image based forecasts is WSTR, which achieves Sharpe ratios of 1.2
and 0.3 in equal weight and value weight spread portfolios, respectively. The performance
diﬀerential between the CNN and WSTR does not appear attributable to diﬀerences in limits
to arbitrage such as trading costs. Image-based CNN strategies have portfolio turnover that
is nearly identical to WSTR, but manage to double the annualized performance of WSTR.
We ﬁnd similar qualitative results for strategies with longer holding periods of one quarter.
The image-based H-L strategy reaches an annualized out-of-sample Sharpe ratio of 1.3 and
0.5 in equal weight and value weight terms, respectively. At a shorter holding period of
one week, the distance between image-based CNN predictions and alternative signals grows.
Equal weight strategies that rebalance weekly earn annualized Sharpe ratios as high as 7.2 (1.5
for value weight strategies). Rather than interpreting these results as trading results that are
2We derive a classiﬁcation accuracy analogue to the translation from predictive R2 into Sharpe ratio
improvements proposed by Campbell and Thompson (2008).
4
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 5 =====
achievable in practice, the one week strategy is meant to demonstrate the impressive predictive
strength of images at short horizons relative to a well-understood benchmark while being
interpretable in economic terms. We also show that this short-horizon predictive power can
translate into long range predictability via transfer learning. Given such strong performance
of image-based signals at the one week horizon, we show that the CNN also outperforms MOM
and STR over monthly and longer horizons even if we exclude the ﬁrst week of post-formation
returns. In some cases, image-based strategies continue to earn a Sharpe ratio of 0.9 for one-
month holding periods when trading is artiﬁcially delayed by a week beyond the end of the
sample represented in the input image.
An intriguing aspect of our analysis is that return-predictive patterns detected by the CNN
extrapolate to contexts outside of the main data set of daily US stock prices. In particular,
we consider the possibility of image-based transfer learning, using a model estimated in one
context to forecast in a distinct context. We show that the predictive patterns identiﬁed by
the CNN from daily US stock data transfer well to international markets and to other time
scales.
The most constraining aspect of empirical asset pricing data is in the time series dimension.
The ﬁnance literature focuses most often on monthly data because the most economically im-
portant patterns in asset markets unfold over monthly or lower frequencies. Yet we experience
only one history of ﬁnancial market prices, meaning that we have at most several hundred
monthly time series observations and several dozen annual observations. Given the scarcity
of low frequency data, it would be greatly beneﬁcial to know if patterns that unfold at high
frequencies (which we can potentially measure well thanks to the availability of large high
frequency data sets) are similar to patterns that unfold at low frequencies. Mandelbrot’s
(2013) hypothesis of “self-similarity” (also “scaling” or “fractal” behavior) in ﬁnancial mar-
kets predicts that asset prices exhibit statistically similar patterns when studied at diﬀerent
time scales, and also predicts the emergence of long-range dependence in prices (Cont, 2005).
Transfer learning provides a means of investigating the possibility that price patterns apply
at multiple time scales. While it is diﬃcult, if not impossible, to eﬀectively train a CNN using
monthly, quarterly, or annual data, we can apply our CNNs trained on daily data to data
sampled at lower frequencies. To illustrate this idea, we take a CNN model trained to predict
5-day ahead returns from images of 5-day prior market data and transfer it to the problem of
predicting data sampled at lower frequencies. For example, if we reinterpret the 5-day CNN
as a “5-period” model, with each period corresponding to a 12-day interval, then our 5-day
CNN model can be applied to images of 60-day market histories sampled once every twelve
days, and the resulting forecasts can be interpreted as forecasts of future 60-day returns. We
5
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 6 =====
show that a quarterly holding period H-L strategy based on this approach delivers an out-of-
sample annualized equal weight Sharpe ratio of 0.9. For comparison, a CNN trained directly
on 60-day images to forecast 60-day returns earns an equal-weight Sharpe ratio of 0.4.
We also study the possibility of international CNN transfer. International markets have
fewer stocks and shorter time series compared to the US. If estimates from the US are appli-
cable in international contexts, it helps alleviate the limitations of conducting data-intensive
analysis in small markets. More generally, if predictive patterns in stock prices are to some
degree global phenomena, then forecasts in data sparse markets can draw estimation strength
from information in data rich markets. We test the viability of international transfer by using
CNN model estimates from US data to construct return forecasts in 26 foreign markets. We
compare transfer-based H-L strategies in each country to a strategy based on a CNN esti-
mated from scratch using local data. We ﬁnd that transfer learning boosts the Sharpe ratio
of country-level H-L strategies (with one month holding period) by 0.4 on average, from 0.3
with a locally-trained CNN, to 0.7 when directly applying the same CNN trained on US data.
We attempt to interpret the predictive patterns identiﬁed by the CNN. The ideal inter-
pretation would answer the question “what does the CNN see when making its predictions?”
CNN interpretation is a notoriously diﬃcult problem in the machine learning literature be-
cause the model uses several telescoping layers of non-linear image transformations to generate
its forecasts. We consider a variety of approaches to make progress on the interpretation chal-
lenge. First, we compare image-based signals from the CNN to previously studied signals in
the literature. Via logistic regression, we identify the linear combination of signals that most
closely approximates the CNN’s prediction. We ﬁnd that the obvious candidates, including
a variety of price trend signals, measures of liquidity, and measures of risk, explain only 12%
or less of the cross-sectional variation in CNN forecasts. Among these, image-based signals
share the strongest correlations with dollar volume, size, reversal, and Amihud illiquidity.
Second, we search for a linear regression of the data underlying images that best approxi-
mates the CNN model. We ﬁnd that a key component of image-based prediction accuracy is
the implicit data scaling achieved by the image representation. In particular, images put all
stocks’ past price data on the same scale so that their recent maximum high and minimum
low prices span the height of the image and rescale all other prices (open, high, low, close,
and moving average) accordingly, and likewise for volume. In doing so, the model is able to
more eﬀectively compare and contrast images to make powerful cross-sectional inferences re-
garding future directional price moves. Following this data transformation, a linear model can
produce a reasonable approximation to the CNN which aids in interpretation. For example,
the linear approximation shows that when a stock closes on the low end of its recent high-low
6
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 7 =====
range, future returns tend to be high. This is a simple and robust approximator for one of the
patterns detected by the CNN. Yet the full non-linear CNN formulation generally improves
on the linear approximation.
Third, we use CNN visualization methods from the machine learning literature to un-
derstand how diﬀerent image examples “activate” diﬀerent regions of the CNN model to
eventually trigger an “up” or “down” return prediction. At last, as in the machine learning
literature more broadly, our attempts at interpretation are admittedly incomplete. Yet they
achieve partial success by oﬀering some visibility into the complex inner workings of the CNN
model.
A large literature has debated the theoretical sensibility and empirical reliability of techni-
cal analysis. Lo et al. (2000) and Lo and Hasanhodzic (2010) insightfully juxtapose arguments
on either side of the debate. A number of papers present theoretical arguments for the ex-
istence of equilibrium predictability with technical analysis, including Brown and Jennings
(1989), Grundy and McNichols (1989), Blume et al. (1994), Barberis et al. (1998), and Han
et al. (2016), among others. Several papers ﬁnd strong empirical support for technical trading
rules, with prominent examples including Brock et al. (1992), Lo et al. (2000), Zhu and Zhou
(2009), Neely et al. (2014), and Detzel et al. (2020). Sullivan et al. (1999) and Bajgrowicz
and Scaillet (2012) study large collections of candidate trading rules with careful corrections
for multiple hypothesis testing and reach skeptical conclusions regarding the signiﬁcance of
technical trading proﬁts. The debate about the viability of technical trading is to some extent
moot given the widely documented, robust, and by now uncontroversial momentum eﬀect
(Jegadeesh and Titman, 1993), which Schwert (2003) concludes is the most reliable technical
pattern in the post-publication sample.
We contribute to this literature with an investigation of price trends (and technical analysis
more generally) by presenting an exhaustive machine learning analysis. The key diﬀerentiator
of our approach is that we do not require the researcher to pre-specify a set of technical
patterns. Instead, we simply present our model with historical market data in the form of
an image. In place of human-generated predictive signals, our CNN conducts an automated
search for image patterns that are most predictive of future returns. One may view this as a
continuation of the agenda set forth by Lo et al. (2000), but with a re-tooled research design
beneﬁtting from twenty years of progress in machine learning and computer vision. In the
end, our CNN model extracts powerful and robust reliable predictive patterns from images
that outperform stalwart price trend patterns from the literature, including momentum and
short-term reversal.
Lastly, there is an emergent literature in computer science that uses price plots and CNN-
7
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 8 =====
based models to forecast stock returns. These papers give a short description of methods and
present small-scale empirical analyses. The large majority of this work performs time series
prediction of aggregate stock indices (examples include Chen et al., 2016, Kim and Kim,
2019, Lee et al., 2019, Hoseinzade and Haratizadeh, 2019) who study time series prediction of
aggregate stock indices. Hu et al. (2018) use price plot CNN’s to cluster individual stocks, but
do not predict returns. To our knowledge, no other paper performs a large-scale, thorough,
and methodologically transparent analysis of return prediction for individual stocks with the
ﬁne granularity that is standard in empirical asset pricing research.
The remainder of the paper proceeds as follows. First, we describe the process of “imaging”
market data in Section 2. Section 3 presents the intuition and detailed mechanics of our CNN
framework. We report our main empirical analysis in Section 4. In Section 5, we analyze
the beneﬁts of CNN transfer learning across geographies and time scales. Section 6 explores
interpretations of the CNN model, and Section 7 concludes. We report a variety of extensions
and robustness of our main empirical analysis in the appendix, along with simulation evidence
to illustrate the model’s ﬁnite sample properties.
2 “Imaging” Market Data
In this section, we describe the process of representing historical market data as an image input
for the CNN prediction model. Many popular websites such as Bloomberg, Yahoo! Finance,
and Google Finance provide historical price charts for a wide range of ﬁnancial assets. Figure
1 illustrates an example of Tesla’s stock price data through August 18, 2020 in a common
price chart format. It includes “OHLC” bars that depict daily opening, high, low, and closing
prices. It then overlays a 20-day moving average closing price. The bottom of the chart shows
daily trading volume. While these charts (and many variations on them) can be captured
from the Internet, we instead generate our own price charts from scratch. This allows us to
conduct various experiments by controlling the amount of information that our CNN “trader”
can observe.
2.1 The OHLC Chart
The images we generate follow the basic format of Figure 1. In particular, our main price plot
uses OHLC bars as illustrated in Figure 2a. High and low prices are represented by the top
and bottom of the middle vertical bar, while opening and closing prices are represented by
the small horizontal lines on the left and right of the bar, respectively. In our images, one day
occupies an area three pixels wide (the center bar, open mark, and closing mark are each one
pixel wide). We opt for OHLC rather than a candlestick chart (also commonly used to depict
prices, see Figure 2b) because OHLC uses fewer pixels to convey the same information.
8
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 9 =====
Figure 1: Tesla OHLC Chart from Yahoo! Finance
Note: OHLC chart for Tesla stock with 20-day moving average price line and daily volume bars. Daily data
from January 1, 2020 to August 18, 2020.
The main component of our image is a concatenation of daily OHLC bars over consecutive
5, 20, or 60-day intervals (approximately weekly, monthly, and quarterly price trajectories,
respectively). The width of a n-day image is thus 3 n pixels. We replace prices by CRSP
adjusted returns to translate the opening, closing, high and low prices into relative scales that
abstract from price eﬀects of stock splits and dividend issuance.
Once days are concatenated, we impose a constant height for all images and scale the
vertical axis so that the maximum and minimum of the OHLC path coincides with the top
and bottom of the image. As a result, all images for the same number of days have the same
pixel dimensions. The resulting image is shown in Figure 3a.
The vertical dimension of the image conveys two main types of information. The ﬁrst and
most obvious are directional price trends that are viewed as the critical content of typical
technical signals such as momentum and reversal. The second and more subtle is volatility
information. Parkinson (1980) shows that the daily high-low range, described by the vertical
length of the OHLC bar, provides an accurate snapshot of daily stock price volatility. Gen-
eralizations by Dobrev (2007) and others show that the high-low range over intervals other
than a day are likewise beneﬁcial for volatility inference. This helps motivate the visual repre-
sentation of price paths, which allows the viewer to immediately and simultaneously perceive
price ranges at diﬀerent frequencies, which is an essentially non-linear process. This type of
non-linearity would be diﬃcult for traditional kernel methods to discern from time series data.
9
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 10 =====
Figure 2: Comparison Between the OHLC chart and the Candlestick Chart
(a) OHLC chart
 (b) Candlestick chart
We exclude images for stocks that IPO or delist during the data window, but we allow
missing data if it occurs in the middle of the stock’s history. If there is missing data, the
columns of pixels corresponding to the missing days are left blank (or partially blank if only
part of the OHLC information is available). 3
We use black as the background color and white color for visible objects on the charts.
This means that most space on the chart is in black, which eases data storage requirements
because a black pixel is represented by (0 , 0, 0) and our resulting images are sparse. The use
of diﬀerent colors for “up” and “down” days, as commonly used by Bloomberg and others,
is redundant because the direction of price change is implied from the opening and closing
price marks. This allows us to focus on 2D pixel matrices, rather than having to track a third
dimension for RGB pixel intensities.
2.2 Moving Average Lines and Volume Bars
As in the Yahoo! Finance chart of Figure 1, we consider supplementing the main OHLC
image with two additional pieces of information. The ﬁrst is a moving average price line.
In traditional technical analysis, moving averages are viewed as useful for inferring potential
deviations from fair value by providing a long horizon reference point for prevailing point-in-
time prices. The comparison of price to its moving average may be useful as a value signal
that avoids the need for balance sheet data, as recommended by Fama and French (1988) and
Kelly and Pruitt (2013). We use a moving average line with a window length equal to the
number of days in the image (e.g., 20-day images will have a moving average line of 20 days).
The daily moving average is reported using one pixel in the middle column for each day, and
3The ability to obtain price-trend based forecasts in the presence of incomplete data is an example of
image-based CNN robustness to noisy data. When a high or low return is missing, we leave the bar entirely
black because it is impossible to draw the middle bar. If both high and low prices are available but opening
and closing prices are not, we draw a vertical bar only.
10
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 11 =====
Figure 3: Examples of 20-day Image under Diﬀerent Settings
(a) w/o VB, w/o MA
 (b) w/o VB, w/ MA
 (c) w/ VB, w/o MA
 (d) w/ VB, w/ MA
Note: From left to right are 20-day images (a) without volume bar and moving average line, (b) without
volume bar but with moving average line, (c) with volume bar but without moving average line, and (d) with
volume bar and moving average line.
Table 1: Image Dimensions of the OHLC Chart with/without Volume Bars
Sample Size (in Days) Image Width (in Pixels) Image Height (in Pixels)
5 15 32
OHLC 20 60 64
60 180 96
Prices Volume Bars
5 15 25 6
OHLC+V 20 60 51 12
60 180 76 19
a line is drawn by connecting those dots. See Figure 3b for an example of 20-day image with
a moving average line added.
The second addition is a set of daily trading volume bars. When including volume data,
we design images so that volume is shown in the bottom one-ﬁfth of the image while the
top four-ﬁfths contain the main OHLC plot. Similar to our OHLC scaling, the maximum
volume in a given image is set equal to the upper limit of the volume bar section and the
remaining volume bars are scaled accordingly. See Figure 3c for an example 20-day image
with volume bars added, and Figure 3d for an example with all price, moving average, and
volume elements. In order to assess the predictive contribution of these elements, the appendix
reports prediction sensitivity analyses using OHLC charts with and without moving average
and volume elements according to the four combinations in Figure 3. Table 1 summarizes
pixel dimensions for each of the design choices we consider.
Figure 4 shows examples from our ﬁnal image data set. These images concisely embed
a variety of information on price trends, volatility, intraday and overnight return patterns,
11
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 12 =====
Figure 4: Generated OHLC Images with Volume Bar and Moving Average Line
(a) 5
 (b) 20
 (c) 60
Note: Market data images for 5, 20, and 60 days of data.
and trading volume. The image design strikes a balance between information content and
storage eﬃciency, delivering a rich information set as an input to the CNN while controlling
the computational burden of estimation.
3 The Convolutional Neural Network Model
In this section, we describe the architecture of our CNN model. We present the model in
detail and provide intuition for each of its components. 4 This section is admittedly dense, a
necessity to provide interested researchers with a fully transparent understanding of model
structure. Readers interested in the empirical results that do not desire an in-depth model
treatment are encouraged to skip to Section 4. Once a description of the architecture is in
place, we use it to discuss the rationale and beneﬁcial aspects of raising the dimensionality of
market data series from 1D time series to 2D images for use in a 2D CNN, rather than using
a traditional time series prediction model.
Each image in our dataset is represented as a matrix of pixel values (0 or 255 for black
or white pixels). In principal, this matrix can be vectorized and treated as the input to a
standard feed-forward neural network. There are a number of problems with this approach.
First, generic unconstrained neural networks tend to be massively parameterized, and this
problem is exacerbated by the large number of pixels in a typical image. The amount of data
required to support such a ﬂexible parameterization is unrealistic in many research problems,
and particularly in our application. Second, such a model would be inherently sensitive to
position, scale, and orientation of an object in the image. Moving the object from one corner
4Goodfellow et al. (2016) Chapter 9 provides a textbook introduction to CNN.
12
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 13 =====
of the image to another, or from foreground to the distance, would in general confuse such a
model and severely limit its usefulness in forecasting.
Instead, CNN is the workhorse model for constructing predictions based on raw image
data. Its popularity stems from its success in resolving the two problems above. They impose
cross-parameter restrictions that dramatically reduce parameterization relative to standard
feed-forward neural networks, making them more tractable to train and eﬀective in prediction
with comparatively small data sets. And they embed a number of tools that make the model
resilient to deformation and re-positioning of important objects in the image.
3.1 Architecture of the CNN
A CNN is a modeling scheme that stacks together a sequence of operations to transform a
raw image into a set of predictive features and, ultimately, a prediction. They are inherently
modular, using a single core building block that can be assembled in various conﬁgurations
depending on the application at hand. A core building block consists of three operations:
convolution, activation, and pooling.
The ﬁrst operation in a CNN building block is “convolution.” To understand convolution,
consider the simpler operation of applying a kernel smoother to a 1D time series. For example,
a rectangular kernel with a width of three smooths the time series by scanning through ob-
servations, averaging each data point with its two neighbors. Convolution works similarly by
scanning through the image and, for each element in the image matrix, producing a summary
of image contents in the immediately surrounding area.
More speciﬁcally, the convolution operation uses a set of “ﬁlters.” A ﬁlter is a low di-
mension kernel weighting matrix that, for each matrix element in the image, calculates the
weighted average of the immediately adjacent matrix elements. Figure 5a is an illustrative ex-
ample with a 6×6 image that is white in the 4×4 upper-left corner and black elsewhere. Filter
1 is an example of a 3 ×3 ﬁlter taking the values of (1 , 0,−1) in each row. For each interior
element (i,j ) of the image, the convolution operation sums the element-wise product of Filter
1 and the 3×3 image contents centered on ( i,j ). The result is stored in the corresponding
element of the convolution output matrix. 5
The example highlights the critical diﬀerence between convolution and 2D kernel smooth-
ing. Smoothing calculates local averages in the image matrix, while convolution instead cal-
culates a weighted sum of nearby image contents where the ﬁlter weights are parameters to
be estimated. Through estimation, the CNN constructs ﬁlters that emphasize aspects of im-
5For elements at the image’s border, we ﬁll in the absent neighbor elements with zeros in order to compute
the convolution. This is a common CNN practice known as “padding,” and ensures that the convolution
output has the same dimension as the image itself (see Simonyan and Zisserman, 2015).
13
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 14 =====
Figure 5: Illustration of Convolution and Max-pooling Operations
(a) Illustration of a Convolutional Operation
Note: The input tensor has size 6 × 6 (with only one channel of grey-scale). There are two 3 × 3 ﬁlters that
detects edges. By construction, Filter 1 detects vertical edges and Filter 2 detects horizontal edge. When
Filter 1 is applied to the yellow part of the input, the convolutional operation ﬁrst calculates the element-wise
products between the 3 × 3 yellow tensor and Filter 1 of the same size (solid red line) and then sums up
the products and output a scalar (dotted red arrow) to the corresponding output location. As we can see
from Output Channel 1, the right part of the output is activated by large values while the left part remains
inactivated with all zeros, indicating that there is a vertical line on the right of the input image. Finally, the
2×2 max-pooling is applied to the output and shrinks the shape by half from 4×4 to 2×2 by taking the max
out of the 2×2 rolling window from the output. The ﬁnal output in channel 1 has value 765 at the upper-right
corner and value 510 at the bottom-right corner, represented the extracted information that there are vertical
edges on the right and the vertical edge is sharper at the top than at the bottom. Filter 2 is applied in the
same sense (green dotted line and green dotted arrow) to extract the information that there are horizontal
edges at the bottom of the image and the bottom-left (765) has sharper change than the bottom-right (510).
(b) Robustness to Noise from Max-Pooling
Note: This example shows that the introduction of the max-pooling layer adds robustness to noise. We take
the same 6× 6 image from the above example and blur the borderline with grey color (pixel value 122). Take
Filter 1, which detects vertical edges, for example. Non-zero values from Output Channel 1 are signiﬁcantly
changed. However, after max-pooling is applied, the original upper-right value 765 remains intact while the
original bottom-right value 510 is replaced with 632, a slightly larger number, indicating a slightly stronger
signal of vertical line at the bottom than before. We observe a similar eﬀect for Filter 2, which detects
horizontal edges.
14
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 15 =====
ages that are most predictive of the outcome of interest and blurs out uninformative content.
The weight conﬁguration in Filter 1, for example, is particularly useful for detecting vertical
boundaries, while Filter 2 ﬁnds horizontal boundaries. Sliding the ﬁlter over the entire image
amounts to searching the image for this speciﬁc pattern. If such a pattern exists in part of the
input image, the corresponding output value will be large—meaning that the output neuron
is stimulated and signaling that a pattern is detected. As in our model below, it is common
to use several ﬁlters in a CNN, each specializing in certain patterns and thus each outputting
a diﬀerent set of features for use in the next layer of the model. And it is common for a CNN
to use telescoping layers of ﬁlters, with the output from the ﬁlters in one layer of the CNN
used as inputs for the subsequent layer to capture more complex patterns.
We use a ﬁlter size of 5 ×3 pixels in our baseline model. In addition, a convolution is
ﬂexible in “stride” of the ﬁlter, which deﬁnes the number of horizontal or vertical steps the
ﬁlter takes as it moves through the image matrix. A larger stride corresponds to coarser
convolution output. We use horizontal stride of one and vertical stride of three, meaning that
the ﬁlter slides across the image and recalculates the ﬁlter output at every position in the row
and jumps three rows at a time as it moves down the image vertically. We sometimes use
a “dilated” ﬁlter to cover a larger neighborhood on the image than the size of the ﬁlter. A
dilated ﬁlter with a dilation rate k along the vertical or the horizontal dimension (or both),
expands the size of the original ﬁlter by ﬁlling in ( k− 1) zeros in between adjacent entries
along the corresponding dimension(s). Our baseline model uses a vertical dilation of two and
no horizontal dilation.6
Convolution endows the CNN with a number of attractive properties relative to more
general neural networks connecting an N×M input matrix to an N×M output. The CNN
tightly constrains model parameterization by imposing two forms of (severe) cross-parameter
restrictions. First, CNN applies a small ﬁlter uniformly to all locations in an image, while
a general network allows separate weight parameters for each element of the image matrix.
Second, the CNN maps the information from a given location in the input matrix only to
the neighborhood of the same location in the output matrix, while a general network would
allow for cross-connectivity between all elements of the input and output matrices. These
restrictions, known respectively as “parameter sharing” and “sparse interactions,” are critical
to the tractability and small-sample robustness of the CNN. And, because the same ﬁlters are
applied uniformly to all locations in the image, they detect relevant objects regardless of their
6Unit stride is a common choice in the CNN literature, but larger strides are sometimes used to reduce the
dimensionality of the model. A stride of two, for example, recalculates the convolution at every other element
of the input matrix, giving coarser convolution output with half the dimensionality. While both stride and
dilation reduce the computational burden and encourage parsimony, dilation preserves the resolution of the
original image.
15
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 16 =====
position (in other words, CNN forecasts are “translation equivariant”).
The second operation in a building block is “activation.” This simple operation is a non-
linear transformation applied element-wise to the output of a convolution ﬁlter. The activation
function we use is “leaky ReLU.” This, roughly speaking, takes the max of the ﬁlter output
value and zero, which sharpens the resolution of the convolution ﬁlter output. 7
The ﬁnal operation in a building block is “max-pooling.” We implement this operation
using a small ﬁlter that scans over the input matrix and returns the maximum value the
elements entering the ﬁlter at each location in the image. The role of max-pooling is two-fold.
First, it acts as a dimension reduction device. Nearby neurons output from the convolution
operation often carry similar information. If any of the neurons in the ﬁlter region are stim-
ulated, max-pooling detects it. At the same time, it discards locally redundant information.
For example, a 2 × 2 pooling ﬁlter shrinks the height and width of the input by half, and
does so without introducing new parameters to be estimated further promoting parsimony in
the CNN. In this respect, max-pooling is an image counterpart to the familiar idea of down-
sampling from the signal processing literature. Second, by taking local maxima throughout
the image, the output is left generally unaﬀected by small perturbations of the input pattern
(illustrated in Figure 5b). In this sense, max-pooling is a de-noising tool that enhances CNN
robustness to local deformation, much like the convolution operation aids CNN robustness to
variation in object position.
Figure 6 illustrates how convolution, activation, and max-pooling combine to form the
basic building block for a CNN model. These blocks are then stacked together to customize
predictive CNN models with varying degrees of richness. In general, the data input to a
building block is a tensor with dimensions h×w×d. The lingua franca of CNN refers to
image depthd as the number of “channels.” In the very ﬁrst block of our network, the input is
a black and white image, which is a matrix (i.e., a 2D tensor). Our black and white images thus
have one channel. Each ﬁlter output has dimensionh×w×1. If a building block uses multiple
ﬁlters, their outputs are stacked together in the third dimension of the tensor so outputs have
multiple channels, one channel corresponding to each ﬁlter. Therefore building blocks in the
interior layers of our CNN take 3D tensors as inputs. If the input layer has multiple channels,
7This activation function, introduced by Maas et al. (2013), is deﬁned as LeakyReLU(x) =
{
x, if x≥ 0
kx, if x < 0 ,
where k = 0.01 is the coeﬃcient that controls the angle of the negative slope. Leaky ReLU is an improved
variant of the standard ReLU function that simply zeros out the unresponsive (negative) outputs while main-
taining the stimulated ones. A drawback of ReLU is that when inputs are all positive, the gradients are either
all positive or all negative, which introduces obstacles to the gradient descent in the training step. Another
drawback of ReLU is that certain neurons may never activate because all gradients ﬂowing through these units
fall into the zero region of the ReLU function. Leaky ReLU resolves both issues.
16
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 17 =====
Figure 6: Diagram of a Building Block
Note: A building block of the CNN model consists of a convolutional layer with 3 × 3 ﬁlter, a leaky ReLU
layer, and a 2× 2 max-pooling layer. In this toy example, the input has size 16× 8 with 2 channels. To double
the depth of the input, 4 ﬁlters are applied, which generates the output with 4 channels. The max-pooling
layer shrinks the ﬁrst two dimensions (height and width) of the input by half and keeps the same depth. Leaky
ReLU keeps the same size of the previous input. In general, with input of size h× w× d, the output has size
h/2× w/2× 2d. One exception is the ﬁrst building block of each CNN model that takes the grey-scale image
as input: the input has depth 1 and the number of CNN ﬁlters is 32, boosting the depth of the output to 32.
each ﬁlter of size (3× 3) gains depth equal to the number of input channels, d (e.g., the ﬁlter
is 3× 3×d). Filters therefore aggregate input information locally in the height and width
dimensions, but then combine this local information across all channels. In Figure 6, the input
has height of 16 and width of 8 and has two channels. Thus each ﬁlter is 3 × 3× 2. The
example uses four ﬁlters, so the size of the convolution output is 16 × 8× 4.
Within a building block, the output from all convolutional ﬁlters are fed element-wise
through the leaky ReLU activation function, which preserves the dimensions of the convolution
output. In the example, the ReLU activation output is therefore 16 × 8× 4. Finally, a max-
pooling ﬁlter of size 2 × 2 with stride of two is applied to each channel separately, reducing
their height and width by one-half each. The ﬁnal output of the building block is 8 × 4× 4.
This output serves as the input to the next building block. By stacking many of these
blocks together, the network ﬁrst creates representations of small components of the image
then gradually assembles them into representations of larger areas. The output from the last
building block is ﬂattened into a vector and each element is treated as a feature in a standard,
fully connected feed-forward layer for the ﬁnal prediction step. The ﬁnal prediction is a linear
combination of the vectorized image features, which is fed through a softmax (i.e., logistic)
function to generate a probability of whether the future price will rise.
17
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 18 =====
Figure 7: Diagram of CNN Models
Note: This ﬁgure shows diagrams of 5-day CNN model (left), 20-day CNN model (middle), and 60-day CNN
model (right). The 5/20/60-day CNN models are built with 2/3/4 CNN buidling blocks described in Figure
6. The notation D@HxW shows the output size of the CNN building block where H is the height, W is the
width, and D is the depth (number of channels). The output of the last CNN block is ﬂattened to a 1D vector
and fed to a fully connected layer (FC), where the input size is calculated as the product H× W× D from
the last CNN building block. The ﬁnal softmax layer yields the probabilities of up and down.
Having introduced the generic architectural components of CNN, we now discuss speciﬁc
choices for our models. Since our images are largely sparse in the vertical dimension, we use
5×3 convolutional ﬁlters and 2×1 max-pooling ﬁlters. We use the same ﬁlter sizes in all layers
for convenience. We use horizontal and vertical strides of 1 and 3 and vertical dilation rates of
2 and 3 for 20-day and 60-day images, respectively, only on the ﬁrst layer because raw images
are sparse. The number of CNN building blocks in our model is based on the size of the input
image. We use 2 blocks to model 5-day images, 3 blocks for 20-day images, and 4 blocks for
60-day images. The number of ﬁlters for the ﬁrst building block is 64 for all three models. 8
As pointed out by Zeiler and Fergus (2014), learned features become more complex in deeper
layers, so we follow the literature and increase the number of ﬁlters after each convolutional
8We follow the popular VGG model (Simonyan and Zisserman, 2015) that uses 64 ﬁlters in its ﬁrst layer.
18
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 19 =====
Figure 8: Convolutional Filters that Detect the Next Day’s Price Change
Note: A 1D data series represented as a 2D image, and ﬁlters for detecting no change, small increase, and
large increase in price.
layer by a factor of two (e.g., 64, 128, 256, and 512 ﬁlters, respectively, in the four layers of the
60-day model). In turn, the fully connected layers have 15 , 360, 46, 080, and 184, 320 neurons
for 5-day, 20-day, and 60-day models, respectively, which are determined by the outputs of
the convolutional blocks. The total number of parameters are 155 , 138 for the 5-day model,
708, 866 for 20-day, and 2, 952, 962 for 60-day models, respectively. 9 Of course, the eﬀective
parameterization of these models is much smaller than this parameter count due to heavy
regularization that shrinks most parameters close to zero. The complete architecture for each
model is shown in Figure 7.
3.2 Image Representation vs. Time-series Representation
Our research design recommends the counter-intuitive idea of embedding 1D time series data
in a higher dimensional space, representing it as a 2D image, before bringing it to predictive
analysis. Why is it beneﬁcial to encode market data as an image, rather than directly modeling
the 1D time series?
Raising the data representation to 2D makes it possible for a convolutional ﬁlter to capture
9The total number of parameters is calculated by summing up the number of parameters in convolutional
layers and the number of parameters in the fully connected layer. The number of parameters in a convolutional
layer is calculated as ( K 2× D + 1)× F , where K is the size of ﬁlters (ﬁxed as 3 in our models), D is the
depth (number of channels) of the input, and F is the number of ﬁlters. The number of parameters in a fully
connected layer is calculated as L× 2, where L is the length of the input vector and 2 corresponds to the two
classiﬁcation labels. We ignore the number of parameters from the batch normalization as it is negligible.
19
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 20 =====
non-linear spatial associations among various price curves. Figure 8 is a simple example of
how this works. It shows a price plot over four periods. In the ﬁrst two periods the price
is ﬂat, in the third period it rises by one unit, and in the fourth period the price jumps by
two units. A 1D kernel ﬁlter can only extract the linear diﬀerence between prices on two
consecutive days without the further help of a non-linear activation function. If a price rise of
two units is more than twice as predictive as a price rise of one unit, the 1D kernel is unable
to account for it. But a 2D CNN applied to the price plot image can. The example shows how
this is achieved with 3×2 ﬁlters that treat “no change,” “small increase,” and “large increase”
as separate features that can enter into an ultimate prediction with distinct weights. That is,
when these ﬁlters are applied to 2D images, they act as indicator functions that detect and
bin price movements of diﬀerent sizes.
Likewise, as discussed in our discussion of price plot format in Section 2, the image au-
tomatically combines information on both directional price movements, movements relative
to moving average trend, price volatility, and trading volume in a single representation. To
jointly consider price direction and volatility, for example, a traditional time series model
would require restrictive choices to manually engineer features. And incorporating volatility
information would inevitably require non-linear transformations of price series along the lines
of stochastic volatility or GARCH models. Fortunately, 2D CNN eliminates any need to man-
ually engineer such features and instead extracts predictive patterns from the market data
series within the CNN itself.
In short, ingesting data in the form of an image allows the model to isolate data relation-
ships that may be diﬃcult to detect with time series methods. Just as humans ﬁnd it easier to
detect patterns graphically rather than with lists of numbers, a statistical pattern recognition
algorithm may also beneﬁt from visualizing an entire data matrix in a single image.
3.3 Training the CNN
Our workﬂow from training, to model tuning, and ﬁnally to prediction follows the basic
procedure outlined by Gu et al. (2020). First, we divide the entire sample into training,
validation, and testing samples. In our main US data sample, we estimate and validate the
model using a single eight-year sample at the start of our sample. In this eight-year sample,
we randomly select 70% images for training and 30% for validation. Randomly selecting the
training and validation sample helps balance positive and negative labels in our classiﬁcation
problem, which attenuates a potential bias in classiﬁcation due to extended periods of bullish
or bearish market swings. The remaining nineteen years of data comprise the out-of-sample
test data set.
We treat the prediction analysis as a classiﬁcation problem. In particular, the label for
20
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 21 =====
an image is deﬁned as y = 1 if the subsequent return is positive and y = 0 otherwise. The
training step minimizes the cross-entropy loss, which is the standard objective function for
classiﬁcation problems. It is deﬁned as:
L(y, ˆy) =−y log(ˆy)− (1−y) log(1− ˆy), (1)
where ˆy is the softmax output from the ﬁnal step in the CNN. If the predicted probability
exactly corresponds with the label, ˆy =y, then the loss function is zero, otherwise the loss is
positive.
We adopt the same regularization procedures in Gu et al. (2020) to combat overﬁt and aid
eﬃcient computation. We apply the Xavier initializer for weights in each layer (Glorot and
Bengio, 2010). This promotes faster convergence by generating starting values for weights to
ensure that prediction variance begins on a comparable scale to that of the labels. Loss func-
tion optimization uses stochastic gradient descent and the Adam algorithm (Kinga and Adam,
2015) with initial learning rate of 1×10−5 and batch size of 128. We use a batch normalization
(Ioﬀe and Szegedy, 2015) layer between the convolution and non-linear activation within each
building block to reduce covariate shift. 10 We apply 50% dropout (Srivastava et al., 2014) to
the fully connected layer (the relatively low parameterization in convolutional blocks avoids
the need for dropout there). Finally, we use early stopping to halt training once the validation
sample loss function fails to improve for two consecutive epochs. Gu et al. (2020) outline the
intuition behind these choices, so for the sake of brevity, we omit this discussion and instead
refer interested readers there.
In Appendix C, we design simulation experiments to investigate the ﬁnite sample per-
formance of the CNN classiﬁer. Since our images look rather diﬀerent from standard CNN
research data sets like ImageNet, the simulation evidence provides insight into the eﬀective-
ness of a CNN in this new environment. The general conclusion from simulations is that the
CNN successfully detects complicated technical patterns in realistically low signal-to-noise
data sets.
4 CNN Prediction for US Stock Returns
4.1 Data
We use daily stock data from CRSP for all ﬁrms listed on NYSE, AMEX, and NASDAQ. Our
sample runs from 1993–2019 based on the fact that daily opening, high, and low prices ﬁrst
10We also normalize all images using the mean and standard deviation of all pixel values from images in the
training data, which are then used to normalize the validation and testing images. We adopt it as a standard
operation in the CNN literature, though skipping this step has negligible impact on our results.
21
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 22 =====
become available in June 1992.
Our price trend analysis focuses on returns adjusted for corporate actions by using returns
to construct a price series. In each image, we normalize the ﬁrst day closing price to one, and
construct each subsequent daily close from returns ( RET t) according to 11
pt+1 = (1 +RET t+1)pt.
Each day’s opening/high/low price levels are scaled in proportion to that day’s closing price
level.
We consider three input choices that include images of market data over the past 5, 20, or
60 days. Image labels take a value of one or zero for positive or non-positive returns over the
20 or 60 days subsequent to the image. Thus, our main analysis amounts to six separately
estimated models. In an extension we also study short-horizon prediction based on returns
over the 5 days subsequent to the image. Because the CNN optimization is stochastic, for each
model conﬁguration we independently re-train the CNN ﬁve times and average their forecasts
(following Gu et al., 2020).
Some important considerations when reading our empirical results are that we do not
recursively re-train the model and that we randomly select training and validation samples.
Speciﬁcally, we train and validate each model only once using data from 1993 to 2000, in which
70% of the sample are randomly selected for training and the remaining 30% for validation.
The trained CNN model is then held ﬁxed for the entire 2001 to 2019 test sample.
4.2 Classiﬁcation Accuracy
The CNN targets a binary outcome equal to one for a positive return over the speciﬁed forward
horizon and zero otherwise. The ﬁtted value from the CNN is an estimate for the probability of
a positive outcome. A true positive (TP) or true negative (TN) occurs when a predicted “up”
probability of greater than 50% coincides with a positive realized return and a probability less
than 50% coincides with a negative return. False positives and negatives (FP and FN) are
the complementary outcomes. We calculate classiﬁcation accuracy as
Accuracy = (TP +TN )/(TP +TN +FP +FN ).
Table 2 summarizes the CNN’s out-of-sample classiﬁcation accuracy at the stock level. For
all image sizes (5, 20, and 60 days) and forecast horizons (20 and 60 days), CNN accuracy
signiﬁcantly exceeds that of a random guess (0.5) with ap-value below 0.01 (with the exception
11An earlier version of this paper used the ex-dividend return RET Xt to build the price series according to
pt+1 = (1 + RETt+1)pt. This gives nearly identical results to using RETt.
22
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 23 =====
Table 2: Out-of-Sample Classiﬁcation Accuracy
Return horizon
20-day 60-day
Image size Acc. Corr. Acc. Corr.
5-day 52.5% 3.1% 53.6% 2.3%
20-day 53.3% 3.4% 53.2% 2.4%
60-day 53.6% 2.9% 52.9% 3.1%
MOM 52.1% 1.8% 52.1% 1.5%
STR 50.4% 1.4% 49.8% 1.2%
WSTR 51.0% 2.8% 50.4% 2.6%
Note: The table reports out-of-sample forecast performance for image-based CNN models and benchmark
signals. We calculate classiﬁcation accuracy and correlation cross-sectionally each period then report time
series averages over each period in the test sample.
of accuracy for STR, all statistics in the table are signiﬁcant, so we suppress p-values). For
comparison we also report classiﬁcation accuracy based on more traditional stock predictors.
In particular, we look at momentum (MOM) measured as the average return over the two to
twelve months prior to the forecast, short-term reversal (STR) measured as the one-month
return prior to the forecast, and weekly short-term reversal (WSTR) measured as the one-
week return prior to the forecast. For benchmark signals like MOM, we calculate accuracy
by following the convention in the literature and deﬁning a signal as an “up” prediction if it
exceeds the cross-sectional median value of the signal. MOM and WSTR are also statistically
signiﬁcant improvements over random guessing, and both are less accurate than the best CNN
at each horizon.
Note that seemingly minor improvements in accuracy can translate into large gains in
portfolio performance. Appendix A provides a derivation demonstrating that for every 0.5%
increase in accuracy, there is a corresponding gain in annualized Sharpe ratio of roughly 0.1
for an investor that exploits the classiﬁer for a timing strategy. In a calibrated example,
improving monthly prediction accuracy from 52% to 53% can raise the timing strategy’s
annualized Sharpe ratio from 0.6 to 0.8.
The table also reports the time series average of cross-sectional correlations between each
signal and subsequent realized returns. CNN forecasts achieve higher correlations than the
benchmark signals on average. The CNN’s improvements over MOM and STR are statistically
signiﬁcant, but diﬀerences versus WSTR are insigniﬁcant.
4.3 Portfolio Performance
Portfolio analysis provides more detailed insight into CNN forecast accuracy. Average accu-
racy and return correlation provide a single aggregate summary of forecast performance. But
23
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 24 =====
Figure 9: Prediction Accuracy By Decile
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Signal Decile
0
0.05
0.1
0.15Annualized Return
I20R20
MOM
STR
WSTR
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Signal Decile
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35Annualized Volatility
The left ﬁgure reports average realized returns in each decile of I20R20 CNN model forecasts and for each
decile of the benchmark signals. Return averages are based on cross-sectional decile averages each period that
are then averaged over time. The right ﬁgure shows the time series volatility of decile returns.
by studying realized returns at diﬀerent quantiles of model predictions, we can understand
accuracy across the full distribution of CNN forecasts. For example, the left panel in Figure
9 shows the average 20-day realized return at each decile of the CNN forecast distribution
(based on 20-day images, denoted “I20R20” in the ﬁgure), ﬁrst averaged within deciles each
period, then averaged over time (i.e., average returns of equal weight decile portfolios). To
illustrate the precision of forecasts, the right panel shows the time series standard deviation
of average decile returns. More positive CNN forecasts translate more or less monotonically
into higher returns on average. This is also true for MOM, STR, and WSTR, though with a
somewhat ﬂatter slope. An interesting diﬀerence between CNN forecasts and other benchmark
price trend signals is in their variability. All CNN decile portfolios have annualized volatility
below 20%. Volatilities of MOM, STR, and WSTR realizations reach 30% to 35% in extreme
deciles.
As our next analysis shows, the comparatively high accuracy and low variability of CNN
forecasts in the example of Figure 9 translates into uniformly large trading improvements for
image-based CNN strategies relative to benchmarks. Every period in which we construct new
forecasts (monthly or quarterly, depending on the model’s forecast horizon), we sort stocks
into equal weighted decile portfolios based on out-of-sample CNN estimates for probability of
24
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 25 =====
Table 3: Performance of Equal Weight Portfolios
I5/R20 I20/R20 I60/R20 MOM/R20 STR/R20 WSTR/R20
Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR
Low -0.00 -0.03 -0.02 -0.12 -0.02 -0.07 0.07 0.20 0.05 0.23 0.01 0.03
2 0.05 0.28 0.05 0.28 0.06 0.28 0.07 0.27 0.08 0.44 0.06 0.31
3 0.07 0.41 0.07 0.39 0.09 0.44 0.09 0.43 0.10 0.63 0.09 0.56
4 0.07 0.40 0.09 0.49 0.10 0.52 0.09 0.50 0.10 0.70 0.10 0.65
5 0.10 0.53 0.11 0.59 0.11 0.60 0.09 0.56 0.11 0.72 0.11 0.74
6 0.11 0.59 0.11 0.59 0.13 0.73 0.11 0.76 0.10 0.66 0.11 0.74
7 0.11 0.60 0.13 0.74 0.13 0.73 0.12 0.88 0.12 0.74 0.11 0.71
8 0.14 0.73 0.14 0.81 0.13 0.79 0.14 0.96 0.10 0.57 0.11 0.64
9 0.16 0.85 0.15 0.87 0.14 0.85 0.14 0.90 0.09 0.42 0.13 0.62
High 0.21 1.09 0.18 1.04 0.14 0.99 0.14 0.74 0.16 0.51 0.19 0.66
H-L 0.22*** 2.35 0.21*** 2.16 0.16*** 1.29 0.07 0.25 0.11** 0.55 0.18*** 1.23
Turnover 175% 173% 155% 63% 168% 167%
I5/R60 I20/R60 I60/R60 MOM/R60 STR/R60 WSTR/R60
Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR
Low 0.07 0.31 0.08 0.32 0.08 0.27 0.11 0.25 0.07 0.27 0.06 0.22
2 0.10 0.43 0.10 0.41 0.09 0.37 0.10 0.33 0.11 0.50 0.11 0.46
3 0.10 0.48 0.11 0.48 0.11 0.46 0.12 0.50 0.12 0.65 0.11 0.55
4 0.11 0.49 0.12 0.53 0.12 0.52 0.12 0.57 0.11 0.66 0.11 0.63
5 0.11 0.53 0.12 0.54 0.12 0.55 0.11 0.63 0.12 0.73 0.12 0.73
6 0.13 0.58 0.12 0.57 0.12 0.57 0.12 0.70 0.12 0.65 0.12 0.69
7 0.13 0.60 0.12 0.60 0.14 0.68 0.12 0.71 0.13 0.68 0.12 0.67
8 0.13 0.62 0.12 0.61 0.14 0.72 0.13 0.81 0.12 0.54 0.12 0.58
9 0.13 0.62 0.13 0.70 0.14 0.75 0.13 0.78 0.12 0.45 0.13 0.52
High 0.16 0.77 0.13 0.74 0.15 0.88 0.13 0.57 0.14 0.40 0.16 0.48
H-L 0.09*** 1.30 0.05 0.37 0.07* 0.43 0.02 0.06 0.07 0.34 0.10*** 0.65
Turnover 59% 59% 58% 37% 56% 56%
Note: Performance of equal-weighted decile portfolios sorted on out-of-sample predicted up probability. Each
panel reports the average annualized holding period return and Sharpe ratio. Average returns accompanied
by ***,**,* are signiﬁcant at the 1%, 5% and 10% signiﬁcance level, respectively. We also report monthly
turnover of each strategy.
a positive subsequent return. We also construct a long-short spread portfolio (“H-L”) that
is long decile 10 and short decile 1. The holding period for each portfolio coincides with the
forecast horizon for each model (either 20 or 60 days following the last date in an image).
Throughout we use the notation “I x/Ry” to denote that the model uses x-day images to
predict subsequent y-day holding period returns.
Table 3 reports portfolio performance in terms of annualized average returns and Sharpe
ratios. The top panel focuses on one month holding period strategies based on each image size
(5, 20, or 60 days). Decile 1, which corresponds to stocks having the lowest probability of a
positive future return indeed realize large negative Sharpe ratios of approximately−0.1 for all
image sizes. Sharpe ratios increase monotonically across predicted “up” probability deciles.
A long-only strategy based on stocks in decile 10 alone earns a Sharpe ratio of roughly 1.0
25
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 26 =====
Table 4: Performance of Value Weight Portfolios
I5/R20 I20/R20 I60/R20 MOM/R20 STR/R20 WSTR/R20
Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR
Low 0.05 0.31 0.05 0.28 0.06 0.32 0.01 0.03 0.04 0.21 0.02 0.07
2 0.05 0.29 0.04 0.21 0.05 0.24 0.02 0.08 0.06 0.38 0.05 0.26
3 0.05 0.30 0.05 0.32 0.07 0.42 0.04 0.18 0.06 0.36 0.05 0.30
4 0.07 0.44 0.05 0.33 0.10 0.55 0.07 0.35 0.08 0.57 0.06 0.44
5 0.06 0.42 0.06 0.40 0.05 0.32 0.07 0.43 0.09 0.61 0.09 0.62
6 0.08 0.48 0.08 0.50 0.07 0.41 0.08 0.56 0.09 0.60 0.09 0.60
7 0.07 0.46 0.08 0.51 0.08 0.48 0.09 0.64 0.11 0.68 0.11 0.78
8 0.09 0.56 0.09 0.58 0.09 0.59 0.10 0.73 0.10 0.57 0.10 0.63
9 0.09 0.56 0.08 0.55 0.07 0.48 0.10 0.69 0.08 0.37 0.10 0.51
High 0.10 0.65 0.11 0.67 0.09 0.62 0.14 0.67 0.05 0.18 0.07 0.27
H-L 0.05* 0.45 0.05** 0.49 0.02 0.17 0.12 0.36 0.01 0.03 0.06 0.30
Turnover 187% 181% 165% 76% 184% 185%
I5/R60 I20/R60 I60/R60 MOM/R60 STR/R60 WSTR/R60
Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR
Low 0.07 0.34 0.06 0.27 0.07 0.32 0.08 0.19 0.06 0.24 0.04 0.15
2 0.11 0.55 0.07 0.33 0.10 0.50 0.04 0.12 0.09 0.46 0.07 0.35
3 0.08 0.41 0.08 0.38 0.08 0.46 0.09 0.38 0.08 0.49 0.08 0.47
4 0.08 0.45 0.09 0.47 0.09 0.47 0.09 0.45 0.09 0.60 0.10 0.63
5 0.10 0.60 0.09 0.45 0.08 0.43 0.08 0.53 0.11 0.72 0.11 0.72
6 0.08 0.48 0.08 0.48 0.09 0.49 0.11 0.67 0.10 0.62 0.10 0.59
7 0.09 0.52 0.09 0.50 0.09 0.54 0.10 0.70 0.11 0.68 0.11 0.68
8 0.09 0.56 0.10 0.57 0.09 0.53 0.09 0.61 0.10 0.54 0.10 0.56
9 0.08 0.51 0.10 0.69 0.09 0.52 0.09 0.62 0.09 0.41 0.09 0.45
High 0.11 0.76 0.09 0.65 0.11 0.75 0.12 0.57 0.08 0.26 0.08 0.28
H-L 0.05** 0.47 0.04 0.32 0.03 0.23 0.04 0.10 0.02 0.08 0.04 0.19
Turnover 62% 60% 59% 42% 61% 62%
Note: Performance of value-weighted decile portfolios sorted on out-of-sample predicted up probability. Each
panel reports the average holding period return and annualized Sharpe ratios. Average returns accompanied
by ***,**,* are signiﬁcant at the 1%, 5% and 10% signiﬁcance level, respectively. We also report monthly
turnover of each strategy.
across CNN models. Long-short H–L strategies earn annualized Sharpe ratios of 2.4, 2.2, and
1.3 for CNN models based on 5-day, 20-day, and 60-day images, respectively. To benchmark
these results, we also report performance of one month holding period strategies based MOM,
STR, and WSTR, whose decile spreads earn annualized Sharpe ratios of 0.3, 0.6, and 1.2,
respectively.
The table also reports the fraction of the strategy that turns over on average, scaled into
monthly terms. Following Gu et al. (2020), we calculate monthly turnover as:
Turnover = 1
M
1
T
T∑
t=1
(∑
i
⏐⏐⏐⏐⏐wi,t+1− wi,t(1 +ri,t+1)
1 +∑
jwj,trj,t+1
⏐⏐⏐⏐⏐
)
,
26
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 27 =====
where M is the number of months in the holding period, T is the number of trading periods,
ri,t+1 is the return of stock i at time t + 1, and wi,t is the portfolio weight of stock i at
time t. Dividing by the number of months makes the turnover measure comparable across
the diﬀerent holding periods that we investigate, for example scaling down quarterly strategy
turnover by a factor of 1/3 or scaling up weekly strategy turnover by a factor of 5. A strategy
that completely reconstitutes its holdings with no overlap from one holding period to the next
will have maximum turnover of 200%/M while a buy-and-hold strategy that never rebalances
achieves minimum turnover of 0%.
MOM and STR H-L strategies with monthly holding periods are useful turnover bench-
marks from the asset pricing literature with MOM typically viewed as a strategy that survives
trading costs while STR does not. The monthly turnover of STR is 168% in our sample and
MOM turnover is 63%. One-month holding period CNN strategies have essentially the same
turnover as STR (and WSTR), but with more than three times the Sharpe ratio of STR
and double the Sharpe ratio of WSTR. Momentum has substantially lower turnover than the
monthly CNN strategy, but its Sharpe ratio is an order of magnitude smaller.
The bottom panel of Table 3 shows performance for quarterly holding period portfolios.
Again the best performance is based on 5-day images, which produce a H–L Sharpe ratio
of 1.3, followed by 0.4 for 20-day and 60-day images. Rebalancing once per quarter reduces
CNN strategy turnover to roughly 60% per month, similar to that achieved from momentum
with monthly rebalance. But, despite its comparable turnover, the CNN strategy’s annualized
Sharpe ratio of 1.3 is roughly ﬁve times larger than the one-month holding period momentum
strategy. With a quarterly holding period, the Sharpe ratio of momentum drops to 0.1, while
STR and WSTR earn 0.3, and 0.7, respectively.
In Table 4 we conduct the same analysis using value weights rather than equal weights. For
one-month holding periods, CNN strategies deliver out-of-sample H-L Sharpe ratios of 0.5, 0.5,
and 0.2, versus 0.4, 0.0, and 0.3 for MOM, STR, and WSTR, respectively. This demonstrates
the well known robustness of MOM for value-weight strategies, and the well known lack of
robustness of STR, which is wiped out by the use of value weights and is consistent with the
fact that STR’s performance is driven by micro-cap stocks. CNN is thus an important contrast
with STR because it continues to excel amid value weighting, illustrating that image data is
predictive across the size spectrum. Finally, at the quarterly investment horizon, the only
strategy delivering signiﬁcant H–L returns is the CNN using 5-day images, which achieves a
Sharpe ratio of 0.5, followed by insigniﬁcant 0.3 and 0.2 Sharpe ratios using 20- and 60-day
images. The next best quarterly strategy is WSTR with an insigniﬁcant Sharpe ratio of 0.2,
while the Sharpe ratio of MOM drops to 0.1.
27
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 28 =====
Table 5: Exposure to Technical Analysis Factors
Equal Weight Value Weight
20-day 60-day 20-day 60-day
Mean Ret 1.73% 1.33% 0.45% 0.17%
t-stat 9.4 5.6 2.1 0.7
Alpha 1.86% 1.31% 0.82% 0.27%
t-stat 10.7 5.6 3.9 1.1
Mkt-Rf -0.32 -0.29 -0.21 -0.16
t-stat -7.3 -5.0 -4.0 -2.6
Momentum 0.01 0.16 0.04 0.11
t-stat 0.3 3.0 0.9 1.9
STR -0.07 0.05 -0.09 -0.01
t-stat -1.3 0.7 -1.4 -0.1
WSTR 0.37 0.60 -0.92 -0.10
t-stat 1.2 1.4 -2.5 -0.2
R 2 26.8% 20.7% 21.6% 9.2%
Note: The table shows time-series regression statistics on excess market return, momentum, and short-term
reversal (from Ken French’s data library) and weekly short-term reversal factors (constructed as the H− L
WSTR spread from Table 3). The columns show equal-weighted portfolio (EW) and value-weighted portfolio
(VW) for 20-day and 60-day images, respectively.
Table 5 estimates the extent to which image-based strategy returns are explained by ex-
posure to the market or to well known price trend strategies. For conciseness, we collapse
the CNN portfolios from six down to two by taking the equal weighted average of all models
with the same supervision window. Of the four control factors, the market portfolio is most
signiﬁcantly associated with image-based strategies. After accounting for their negative betas,
image-based alphas rise slightly above the raw average return. The primary conclusion from
the table, however, is that image strategies bear little in common with well known momentum
or reversal phenomena, and that these well known strategies are not responsible for the success
of the CNN strategy.
4.4 Short-Horizon Predictions
In this subsection we analyze the predictive strength of the CNN at shorter horizons of one
week. Short horizon prediction is interesting in our setting for understanding the predictive
strength of image-based signals in intuitive economic terms (while recognizing that trading
such an investment strategy would be costly). But it also lays the groundwork for us to explore
the possibility that technical patterns in high frequency price data might manifest in similar
forms at lower frequencies. After all, one of the most challenging aspects of empirical asset
28
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 29 =====
Table 6: Short-horizon (One Week) Portfolio Performance
Equal Weight
I5/R5 I20/R5 I60/R5 MOM/R5 STR/R5 WSTR/R5
Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR
Low -0.28 -1.92 -0.32 -1.94 -0.21 -1.10 0.15 0.44 -0.01 -0.03 -0.08 -0.34
2 -0.04 -0.27 -0.04 -0.21 0.02 0.12 0.10 0.44 0.06 0.35 0.04 0.24
3 0.03 0.15 0.04 0.20 0.07 0.35 0.10 0.50 0.09 0.58 0.08 0.48
4 0.08 0.41 0.08 0.43 0.11 0.58 0.10 0.57 0.10 0.67 0.09 0.58
5 0.09 0.48 0.12 0.65 0.14 0.75 0.10 0.63 0.11 0.68 0.09 0.60
6 0.14 0.70 0.15 0.80 0.16 0.88 0.12 0.76 0.11 0.70 0.11 0.65
7 0.17 0.84 0.19 0.97 0.17 0.93 0.13 0.83 0.11 0.64 0.13 0.75
8 0.22 1.06 0.23 1.19 0.20 1.08 0.14 0.90 0.12 0.62 0.14 0.72
9 0.30 1.48 0.27 1.40 0.22 1.23 0.15 0.91 0.16 0.68 0.18 0.81
High 0.54 2.89 0.52 2.76 0.33 1.85 0.16 0.78 0.38 1.19 0.46 1.56
H-L 0.83*** 7.15 0.84*** 6.75 0.54*** 4.89 0.02 0.07 0.39*** 1.76 0.53*** 2.84
Turnover 862% 834% 774% 154% 426% 825%
Value Weight
I5/R5 I20/R5 I60/R5 MOM/R5 STR/R5 WSTR/R5
Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR
Low -0.03 -0.19 -0.03 -0.16 -0.02 -0.12 0.03 0.06 0.04 0.16 -0.02 -0.09
2 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.12 0.01 0.06 0.02 0.05 0.04 0.22 0.03 0.14
3 0.04 0.24 0.04 0.24 0.04 0.24 0.07 0.27 0.06 0.34 0.06 0.34
4 0.06 0.35 0.06 0.32 0.06 0.31 0.08 0.36 0.09 0.54 0.06 0.36
5 0.06 0.34 0.06 0.34 0.06 0.34 0.08 0.41 0.09 0.57 0.08 0.48
6 0.09 0.50 0.09 0.51 0.06 0.32 0.08 0.46 0.10 0.57 0.10 0.60
7 0.11 0.58 0.09 0.49 0.08 0.45 0.08 0.51 0.10 0.51 0.11 0.63
8 0.12 0.62 0.11 0.61 0.09 0.49 0.10 0.62 0.13 0.63 0.15 0.73
9 0.16 0.81 0.11 0.59 0.11 0.61 0.11 0.62 0.13 0.51 0.18 0.72
High 0.20 0.91 0.20 0.99 0.14 0.77 0.14 0.63 0.16 0.46 0.18 0.59
H-L 0.23*** 1.49 0.22*** 1.74 0.16*** 1.44 0.12 0.33 0.13* 0.44 0.21*** 0.77
Turnover 947% 910% 839% 204% 541% 917%
Note: Performance of equal-weighted (top panel) and value-weighted (bottom panel) decile portfolios sorted on
out-of-sample predicted up probability. Each panel reports the average holding period return and annualized
Sharpe ratios. Average returns accompanied by ***,**,* are signiﬁcant at the 1%, 5% and 10% signiﬁcance
level, respectively. We also report monthly turnover of each strategy.
pricing is the dearth of time series data. The ﬁnance literature focuses most often on monthly
data because the most economically important patterns in asset markets unfold over monthly
or lower frequencies. Yet we experience only one history of ﬁnancial market prices, meaning
that we have at most several hundred monthly time series observations and several dozen
annual observations. Given the scarcity of low frequency data, it would be greatly beneﬁcial
to know if patterns that unfold at high frequencies (which we can potentially measure well
thanks to the availability of large high frequency data sets) are similar to patterns that unfold
at low frequencies. This is Mandelbrot’s (2013) hypothesis of “self-similarity” (also “scaling”
or “fractal” behavior) in ﬁnancial markets—i.e., that asset prices exhibit statistically similar
patterns when studied at diﬀerent time scales. Before studying the self-similar time scale
hypothesis in detail in Section 5, we ﬁrst report the behavior of CNN predictions at higher
29
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 30 =====
Table 7: Other Holding Periods
Holding Period
Equal Weight Value Weight
Model 5 days 20 days 60 days 5 days 20 days 60 days
I5/R5 7.15 2.77 1.40 1.49 0.77 0.46
I5/R20 5.53 2.35 1.36 1.26 0.45 0.31
I5/R60 4.32 2.05 1.30 0.74 0.32 0.47
I20/R5 6.75 3.17 1.59 1.74 0.73 0.37
I20/R20 3.87 2.16 1.05 0.89 0.49 0.44
I20/R60 0.97 0.45 0.37 0.01 0.26 0.32
I60/R5 4.89 2.33 1.08 1.44 0.55 0.35
I60/R20 2.19 1.29 0.60 0.99 0.17 0.13
I60/R60 1.00 0.75 0.43 0.36 0.38 0.23
Combo 4.07 1.92 1.02 0.99 0.46 0.34
Note: The table reports out-of-sample Sharpe ratios for holding periods of 5, 20, or 60 days with equal weight
and value weight portfolios. All strategies use H-L decile spread portfolios sorted by image-based return
predictions from each model.
frequencies than those reported above.
Table 6 reports the predictive strength of the CNN model when it targets 5-day ahead
returns. We summarize predictive strength in the economic terms of one-week holding period
portfolios. The CNN is especially adept in forecasting at this frequency. For equal weight
portfolios (top panel), the weekly image-based strategy earns annualized Sharpe ratios ranging
from 4.9 to 7.2. For comparison, the closest benchmark is WSTR with a Sharpe ratio of 2.8.
In value weight portfolios, the CNN strategy earns a 1.4 to 1.7 Sharpe ratio, double the 0.8
Sharpe ratio for the value weight WSTR strategy.
Until now, all of our portfolio analyses have studied holding periods equal to the forecast
horizon in each model (e.g., rebalancing positions every ﬁve days for I5/R5 but every 60 days
for I5/R60). But there is no guarantee that the best quarterly trading portfolio, for example,
comes from a model that was trained with 60-day returns. Table 7, studies the possibility that
CNN models trained with one supervising return horizon are helpful for predicting diﬀerent
return horizons out-of-sample. To this end, we investigate portfolio performance for a range of
holding periods (5, 20, or 60 days) regardless of the horizon of the supervising return. Indeed,
we see that there is no single image length, and no single supervision window, that is dominant
in terms of portfolio performance across investment horizons. For example, it is often the case
that quarterly trading strategies beneﬁt when the prediction model is supervised with shorter
horizon returns. Furthermore, we ﬁnd that image-based forecasts from diﬀerent models pick
30
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 31 =====
Figure 10: Trading Delay and Sharpe Ratio Decay
●
●
●
● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●●●
■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■
◆
◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆
▲
▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
● CNN
■ MOM
◆STR
▲WSTR
5 10 15 20 Delay
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
SR
I5R5
●
●
●
● ●
● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●
● ● ● ● ● ● ●
■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■
◆
◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆
▲
▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
● CNN
■ MOM
◆STR
▲WSTR
5 10 15 20Delay
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
SR
I5R20
●
●
●
● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●
● ● ● ● ● ● ●■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■
◆
◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆
▲
▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
●CNN
■ MOM
◆ STR
▲ WSTR
5 10 15 20 Delay
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
SR
I5R60
●
●
●
● ●
● ● ● ● ● ● ●
● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■
◆
◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆
▲
▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
●CNN
■ MOM
◆STR
▲WSTR
5 10 15 20 Delay
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
SR
I20R5
●
●
● ● ● ● ●
● ● ● ● ●
● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■
◆
◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆
▲
▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
●CNN
■ MOM
◆STR
▲WSTR
5 10 15 20Delay
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
SR
I20R20
●
● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■
◆
◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆
▲
▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
●CNN
■ MOM
◆STR
▲WSTR
5 10 15 20 Delay
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
SR
I20R60
●
●
●
● ●
● ● ● ● ● ● ●
● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●
■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■
◆
◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆
▲
▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
●CNN
■ MOM
◆STR
▲ WSTR
5 10 15 20 Delay
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
SR
I60R5
●
●
● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■
◆
◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆
▲
▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
●CNN
■ MOM
◆STR
▲ WSTR
5 10 15 20Delay
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
SR
I60R20
●
● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■
◆
◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆
▲
▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲
●CNN
■ MOM
◆STR
▲ WSTR
5 10 15 20 Delay
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
SR
I60R60
Note: The ﬁgures report out-of-sample annualized Sharpe ratios for equal-weight H-L decile spread strategies
sorted on predictions from each CNN model, MOM, STR, and WSTR. All strategies use a 20-day holding
period, but there is a delay in implementing the portfolio of j = 0, 1, ...,20 days after the sorting characteristics
becomes available (corresponding to the horizontal axis).
up on diﬀerent signals. For example, the correlation between the I5R5 and I20R20 models is
32%. Pairwise correlations between all nine model conﬁgurations are below 50% on average
and as low as 7% (and as high as 74%) between some models. This suggests that investment
strategies can beneﬁt from combining forecasts from multiple CNN models.
Table 6 indicates that trading strategy performance is strongest in the ﬁrst week after
portfolio formation. This, however, is not the only driver of monthly and quarterly trading
performance shown in Tables 3, 4. Figure 10 shows the performance of strategies from each
CNN using 20-day holding period portfolios, but delays the start of the investment by j =
0, 1,..., 20 days after the end of the associated image. Indeed, very strong performance can be
earned by the CNN in the ﬁrst week of trading, especially when the model is trained based
on 5-day images. But an interesting pattern emerges in the center column of Figure 10. For
a given forecast horizon and holding period, the prediction horizon of CNN forecasts becomes
31
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 32 =====
Figure 11: Comparison With Traditional Technical Indicators
−4 −2 0 2 4 6
Annualized Sharpe Ratio
0
200
400
600Frequency
−2 −1 0 1 2
Annualized Sharpe Ratio
0
200
400
600Frequency
−1.0 −0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0
Annualized Sharpe Ratio
0
100
200
300
400
500
600Frequency
−1.5 −1.0 −0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5
Annualized Sharpe Ratio
0
100
200
300
400Frequency
−1.0 −0.5 0.0 0.5
Annualized Sharpe Ratio
0
100
200
300
400Frequency
−1.0 −0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0
Annualized Sharpe Ratio
0
100
200
300
400
500Frequency
Note: The ﬁgure shows the histogram of Sharpe ratios for 7,846 technical analysis portfolios that rebalance
by week, month, and quarter, respectively. The top panel shows equal weight portfolios and the bottom panel
shows value weight portfolios. Red vertical bars are the corresponding Sharpe ratios for the I20/R5, I20/R20,
and I20/R60 CNN strategies, respectively.
longer when large images are used. Moving from 5-day images to 20-day and then to 60-day
images shows a ﬂattening pattern in portfolio performance. Large images earn less in the ﬁrst
week, but more at longer horizons as they beneﬁt from longer-range predictability. Strategies
based on 20-day or 60-day images continue to earn Sharpe ratios around 1.0 or 0.5 even when
the start of the investment is delayed by a week. And in these cases, the predictive strength
of the CNN is longer-lived than the benchmark signals MOM, STR, and WSTR.
4.5 Traditional Technical Analysis
Brock et al. (1992) ﬁnd that 26 pre-deﬁned (and commonly used) technical trading rules
generate signiﬁcantly positive investment performance. Lo et al. (2000) introduce a kernel
regression approach to recognizing technical indicators and ﬁnd further support for the positive
performance of investment strategies that rely on technical analysis.
Sullivan et al. (1999) assess a universe of 7,846 pre-deﬁned technical trading rules while
carefully controlling for multiple testing to control the likelihood of false positives. While they
ﬁnd that none of the Brock et al. (1992) strategies deliver signiﬁcant positive performance
in the post-publication sample, they ﬁnd evidence of signiﬁcant positive performance in their
larger universe of trading rules. More recently, Bajgrowicz and Scaillet (2012) revisit the
same universe of 7,846 rules and conclude that none are signiﬁcant after controlling the false
discovery rate.
32
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 33 =====
The Sullivan et al. (1999) universe of 7,846 technical rules oﬀers an excellent opportunity to
calibrate the signiﬁcance of our results. They constitute a null distribution for benchmarking
other technical analysis strategies. To use these benchmarks, we apply each of the 7,846
trading rules stock-by-stock and produce a stock-level signal, 12 then construct decile spread
long-short strategies in the same way that we build our long-short CNN strategy. We use
technical signals at the end of each week, month, or quarter to rebalance, depending on the
portfolio holding period, and consider equal weighting and value weighting. This gives us a
distribution of performances for 7,846 diﬀerent strategies against which we compare the CNN
strategy.
Figure 11 reports the histogram of annualized Sharpe ratios for the 7,846 technical signals
and the corresponding CNN strategy Sharpe ratio (red bars). At the weekly horizon, zero
of the 7,846 outperform the CNN strategy (regardless of weighting scheme), and the closest
technical indicator is outperformed by a large margin. At the monthly horizon, again none of
the technical rules exceed CNN performance in equal weighted terms, and only 4.4% exceed
CNN when value weighted. At the quarterly horizon, the outperformance of CNN diminishes
somewhat, with 13.4% and 12.9% of technical rules outperforming CNN with equal and value
weighting, respectively.
There are two considerations to bear in mind when interpreting the results of Figure 11.
First, is that the CNN exceedance rates are not the same as p-values because the technical
strategy distribution is not truly a null distribution. There may in fact be some true positives
in the technical strategy universe, so in this sense the exceedance rate is more conservative than
a p-value. Second, this point is especially relevant for long horizon (monthly and quarterly)
return comparisons. The technical indicator literature has focused only on very short holding
periods, typically of a single day. The fact that a non-trivial proportion of quarterly strategies
produce annualized Sharpe ratios above 0.5 is a new and potentially interesting ﬁnding that
warrants further investigation (though is beyond the scope of this paper).
4.6 Robustness
Appendix B reports a number of robustness analyses that support the main empirical ﬁndings
presented above. In particular, we perform sensitivity analysis of the CNN prediction model
to alternate choices in image representation (e.g., excluding volume data or moving average
price line), model architecture (e.g., varying the number of ﬁlters in each layer or varying the
number of layers), and estimation (e.g., diﬀerent dropout or batch normalization schemes).
Finally, we compare CNN models to alternative computer vision models including “HOG”
and “HAAR” (whose model descriptions are also included in the appendix).
12We are grateful to Olivier Scaillet for sharing his code.
33
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 34 =====
5 Transfer Learning
Our analysis to this point has focused on daily data for the US stock market. Training the
CNN in this setting confers two advantages from data size. First, because the US stock
market is the largest in the world, the CNN beneﬁts from a wide cross section of observations.
Second, our use of daily data extends the time series dimension of our data set by a factor
of ﬁve compared to using weekly data and a factor of 20 compared to using monthly data.
However, we may be interested in applying CNN forecasts in contexts for which re-training the
CNN model is infeasible. For example, in order to isolate low frequency dynamics in returns,
one may wish to use images of long past price histories and forecast several months into the
future. This is likely to be prohibitive for a CNN due to the data requirements necessary to
achieve a suﬃciently well trained model. Likewise, we may be interested in forecasting returns
in small or emerging markets where the cross section may contain only a few hundred stocks.
In this section, we explore the possibility of transfer learning for constructing accurate
image-based forecasts in contexts with limited data. Transfer learning uses patterns identiﬁed
in one context to guide analysis or prediction in a diﬀerent context. 13 We show that the
prediction patterns identiﬁed by the CNN from daily US stock data transfer well to other
time scales and to international markets. In doing so, we show that it is possible to apply
CNN models estimated in daily US data to construct proﬁtable portfolios in other settings that
preclude direct training of the CNN. At the same time, it provides an additional out-of-sample
demonstration of reliable predictive power of image-based CNN forecasts.
5.1 Time Scale Transfer
Transfer learning provides a means of investigating the possibility that price patterns apply
at multiple time scales. While it is diﬃcult to eﬀectively train a CNN using monthly or
annual observations, we can apply our CNNs trained on daily data to data sampled at lower
frequencies. We ﬁrst consider transferring the I5/R5 CNN to the problem of using 20-day
price histories to forecast future 20-day returns. To do so, we draw the 20-day price history
using a 5-period OHLC chart by re-deﬁning a “period” to be a 4-day interval. Each tick mark
in an image now corresponds to four days of market data collapsed into a single observation,
and a given OHLC bar show open, high, low, close over the 4-day interval. By down-sampling
market data from once per day to once every four days, we can apply I5/R5 estimates to a
20-day image.
Panel A of Table 8 compares approaches to portfolio construction using 20-day price his-
tories to make 20-day future return forecasts. The columns labeled “baseline” correspond
13See, e.g., Pan and Yang (2009) for a survey of the computer science literature on transfer learning.
34
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 35 =====
Table 8: Time Scale Transfer I5/R5 to I20/R20
Panel A: Equal Weight Portfolios
Baseline Re-train Transfer Baseline+Transfer
Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR
Low -0.02 -0.12 -0.02 -0.10 -0.01 -0.07 -0.04 -0.19
2 0.05 0.28 0.05 0.26 0.04 0.25 0.04 0.20
3 0.07 0.39 0.07 0.37 0.07 0.40 0.06 0.35
4 0.09 0.49 0.09 0.49 0.08 0.43 0.08 0.44
5 0.11 0.59 0.10 0.56 0.09 0.50 0.09 0.52
6 0.11 0.59 0.11 0.61 0.10 0.53 0.11 0.64
7 0.13 0.74 0.12 0.65 0.11 0.59 0.13 0.70
8 0.14 0.81 0.14 0.79 0.14 0.70 0.15 0.80
9 0.15 0.87 0.15 0.82 0.17 0.84 0.17 0.89
High 0.18 1.04 0.20 1.15 0.24 1.14 0.23 1.17
H-L 0.21*** 2.16 0.22*** 2.21 0.25*** 2.14 0.26*** 2.46
Turnover 173% 177% 176% 175%
Panel B: Value Weight Portfolios
Baseline Re-train Transfer Baseline+Transfer
Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR
Low 0.05 0.28 0.06 0.38 0.03 0.22 0.04 0.24
2 0.04 0.21 0.06 0.36 0.05 0.34 0.05 0.32
3 0.05 0.32 0.05 0.34 0.06 0.42 0.04 0.27
4 0.05 0.33 0.08 0.53 0.05 0.35 0.05 0.30
5 0.06 0.40 0.07 0.42 0.07 0.46 0.06 0.40
6 0.08 0.50 0.08 0.50 0.08 0.50 0.07 0.45
7 0.08 0.51 0.08 0.54 0.09 0.56 0.07 0.45
8 0.09 0.58 0.09 0.58 0.11 0.66 0.10 0.61
9 0.08 0.55 0.10 0.64 0.12 0.65 0.10 0.61
High 0.11 0.67 0.10 0.66 0.12 0.69 0.12 0.73
H-L 0.05** 0.49 0.04 0.33 0.09*** 0.73 0.08*** 0.67
Turnover 181% 187% 186% 184%
Note: The table shows the performance of strategies using time scale transfer learning. In particular, we
directly apply the I5/R5 CNN model estimated from daily data to construct forecasts from images that
include 20 days of data sampled once every four days. Transfer learning portfolio performance (with a 20-day
holding period) is reported under “Transfer.” For comparison, we report a “Baseline” strategy that uses the
I20/R20 CNN model of Tables 3 and 4, and a CNN model that is trained from scratch using images of 20 days
of data sampled once every four days (under “Re-train”). Finally, “Baseline+Transfer” shows the performance
of an equal-weighted average of the baseline and transfer strategies.
to CNN-based forecasts using daily data; i.e., it exactly repeats the strategy of the I20/R20
model in Table 3. The columns labeled “Re-train, No Transfer” re-estimate a CNN from
scratch using 20 days of data collapsed into 5-period images and supervised by future 20-day
returns. This provides a benchmark for how predictability is aﬀected by simply down-sampling
the price history and re-training the CNN. The columns labeled “Transfer” use estimates from
the I5/R5 CNN to construct 20-day return forecasts from the collapsed 20-day images, thus
35
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 36 =====
applying transfer learning at a 1:4 time scale.
Directly transferring the I5/R5 model to collapsed 20-day images with no re-estimation
produces a remarkable 2.1 Sharpe ratio in equal weight portfolios. In this example, the
transfer-based strategy performs nearly as well as the CNN re-trained with lower frequency
data (whose Sharpe ratio is 2.2). Interestingly, the transfer learning signal is only 42% cor-
related with the baseline signal, indicating that they pick up in part on diﬀerent predictive
patterns. In the columns labeled “50/50 Baseline+Transfer” we show that diﬀerences in
the information content from baseline and transfer signals can be leveraged to form an even
stronger trading strategy. In particular, an equal weight combination of the two individual
strategies returns a Sharpe ratio of 2.5. Panel B shows that when forming value weight decile
portfolios, the transfer learning signal is in fact more powerful than the re-trained CNN. At
0.7, the H-L transfer strategy more than doubles the Sharpe ratios from re-training (0.3) and
is around 50% larger than the baseline Sharpe ratio from daily data (0.5).
Next, we analyze 60-day market data collapsed into 5-period images (i.e., sampling once
every 12 days) and forecasting returns over the next 60 days. We repeat the analysis of com-
paring the baseline I60/R60 strategy to either re-training the CNN on collapsed images, or
directly transferring the estimated I5/R5 model to the I60/R60 problem at the 1:12 time scale.
The results are reported in Table 9 and show that the comparative success of transfer learning
becomes even more stark at this lower frequency time scale. In Panel A, we ﬁnd that transfer
achieves an H-L Sharpe ratio of 0.9 (for equally weighted portfolios), compared with the base-
line I60/R60 Sharpe ratio of 0.4 and a re-training Sharpe ratio of 0.4. Value weight portfolios,
reported in Panel B, also demonstrate success of the transfer approach with a Sharpe ratio
of 0.3, versus a Sharpe ratio of 0.0 for re-training. The 50/50 combination of value weight
baseline and transfer strategies reaches a Sharpe of 0.31, again demonstrating that transfer
strategies applied at lower frequencies produce diﬀerent and additive signals compared to the
daily model (the gain in Sharpe ratio from the 50/50 combination is marginally signiﬁcant at
the 10% level).
5.2 International Transfer
International markets have fewer stocks and shorter time series compared to the US. If esti-
mates from US data are applicable in international contexts, it helps alleviate the limitations
of conducting data-intensive analysis in small markets. More generally, if predictive patterns
in stock prices are to some degree global phenomena, then forecasts in data sparse markets
can draw estimation strength from information in data rich markets. We explore the viability
of international transfer learning by using CNN models estimated from US data to construct
return forecasts in foreign markets.
36
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 37 =====
Table 9: Time Scale Transfer I5/R5 to I60/R60
Panel A: Equal Weight Portfolios
Baseline Re-train Transfer Baseline+Transfer
Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR
Low 0.08 0.27 0.08 0.30 0.06 0.31 0.06 0.22
2 0.09 0.37 0.08 0.34 0.08 0.41 0.09 0.35
3 0.11 0.46 0.10 0.43 0.10 0.50 0.11 0.46
4 0.12 0.52 0.12 0.53 0.11 0.54 0.11 0.51
5 0.12 0.55 0.12 0.55 0.11 0.54 0.12 0.55
6 0.12 0.57 0.12 0.57 0.13 0.61 0.12 0.61
7 0.14 0.68 0.13 0.64 0.12 0.55 0.14 0.67
8 0.14 0.72 0.13 0.64 0.14 0.60 0.14 0.69
9 0.14 0.75 0.13 0.72 0.14 0.59 0.15 0.78
High 0.15 0.88 0.14 0.88 0.17 0.69 0.16 0.93
H-L 0.07* 0.43 0.06 0.37 0.10*** 0.90 0.10*** 0.81
Turnover 58% 59% 59% 58%
Panel B: Value Weight Portfolios
Baseline Re-train Transfer Baseline+Transfer
Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR Ret SR
Low 0.07 0.32 0.11 0.50 0.06 0.38 0.08 0.37
2 0.10 0.50 0.08 0.41 0.07 0.34 0.08 0.40
3 0.08 0.46 0.07 0.39 0.08 0.47 0.08 0.41
4 0.09 0.47 0.06 0.35 0.09 0.58 0.08 0.46
5 0.08 0.43 0.09 0.50 0.10 0.61 0.09 0.49
6 0.09 0.49 0.08 0.48 0.09 0.55 0.08 0.45
7 0.09 0.54 0.10 0.55 0.09 0.53 0.09 0.49
8 0.09 0.53 0.10 0.58 0.10 0.56 0.10 0.57
9 0.09 0.52 0.09 0.55 0.11 0.65 0.09 0.58
High 0.11 0.75 0.11 0.77 0.10 0.51 0.11 0.81
H-L 0.03 0.23 0.00 0.01 0.04 0.27 0.03 0.31
Turnover 59% 61% 62% 59%
Note: The table shows the performance of strategies using time scale transfer learning. In particular, we
directly apply the I5/R5 CNN model estimated from daily data to construct forecasts from images that
include 60 days of data sampled once every 12 days. Transfer learning portfolio performance (with a 60-day
holding period) is reported under “Transfer.” For comparison, we report a “Baseline” strategy that uses the
I60/R60 CNN model of Tables 3 and 4, and a CNN model that is trained from scratch using images of 60 days
of data sampled once every 12 days (under “Re-train”). Finally, “Baseline+Transfer” shows the performance
of an equal-weighted average of the baseline and transfer strategies.
We use daily stock market data from Datastream for Hong Kong, United Kingdom,
Canada, Japan, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Russia, India, and South Korea; and we use daily stock market data from CS-
MAR for mainland China. 14 The date range for most countries matches the US sample, 1993
14For exposition, we refer to each of these markets as “countries,” though Hong Kong is a special adminis-
trative region of China.
37
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 38 =====
Table 10: International Transfer and H-L Decile Portfolio Sharpe Ratios (I20/R20)
Equal Weight Value WeightStock Count Re-train Direct Transfer Transfer−Re-train Re-train Direct Transfer Transfer−Re-trainGlobal 17206 -0.07 0.21 0.29 0.64 -0.25 -0.90Japan 3056 0.61 0.99 0.37* 0.24 0.12 -0.12Canada 2924 0.04 -0.07 -0.11 0.52 0.77 0.24India 1861 0.99 0.66 -0.33 0.94 0.11 -0.83UnitedKingdom 1783 0.19 -0.03 -0.21 0.66 0.32 -0.34France 955 -0.36 0.81 1.17*** -0.42 0.30 0.72***SouthKorea 911 0.89 0.59 -0.30 -0.26 0.75 1.01***Australia 886 1.97 2.20 0.22 -0.22 0.61 0.83***Germany 868 -0.26 0.08 0.34* 0.24 0.40 0.16China 662 0.82 0.06 -0.77 0.39 0.07 -0.33HongKong 543 1.63 1.48 -0.15 0.51 1.12 0.62***Singapore 284 0.36 2.20 1.83*** 0.24 0.98 0.74***Sweden 260 0.30 1.43 1.13*** 0.61 0.71 0.10Italy 241 0.63 1.71 1.08*** -0.05 0.65 0.69***Switzerland 240 -0.07 0.06 0.13 0.06 0.72 0.66***Denmark 223 -0.17 0.92 1.08*** 0.35 0.63 0.28Netherlands 212 -0.40 -0.31 0.09 0.24 0.23 -0.01Greece 201 -0.30 0.10 0.40** 0.07 0.36 0.29Belgium 171 -0.19 0.81 1.00*** -0.21 0.48 0.69***Spain 170 0.76 -0.24 -1.00 0.09 0.40 0.31*Norway 169 -0.02 1.00 1.02*** -0.19 0.77 0.96***Portugal 121 0.27 0.27 0.00 -0.02 0.51 0.53**NewZealand 114 0.43 1.04 0.61*** 0.56 0.51 -0.05Finland 113 0.37 1.37 1.00*** -0.23 0.45 0.68***Austria 110 -0.10 0.08 0.18 0.31 0.44 0.13Ireland 75 -0.17 0.19 0.36* 0.46 0.65 0.19Russia 53 -0.42 0.91 1.32*** -0.32 0.75 1.07***
Average 1274 0.29 0.69 0.40 0.19 0.50 0.31Average (excluding Global) 661 0.30 0.70 0.40 0.18 0.53 0.36
Note: The table reports annualized out-of-sample Sharpe ratios for H-L decile spread portfolios within each
country. We report the average monthly stock count by country, the image-based strategy from re-training the
I20/R20 CNN using local data, and the image-based strategy directly transfers the I20/R20 model estimated in
US data without re-training. Sharpe ratio gains (Transfer−Re-train) accompanied by ***,**,* are signiﬁcant
at the 1%, 5% and 10% signiﬁcance level, respectively.
to 2019, with the exception of Russia, Greece, Finland, Ireland, and Sweden which start in
1999. While some markets such as Japan and Canada have samples of around 3,000 stocks
each month on average, the median country has roughly 300 stocks.
Our transfer learning implementation directly applies estimated CNN models from the US
sample to price images in foreign markets, with no re-training. We then conduct portfolio
sorts country-by-country using transfer-based return forecasts and calculate out-of-sample
Sharpe ratios for decile spread H-L portfolios. We assess the beneﬁts of transfer learning by
comparing with otherwise identical CNN models estimated using local image data for each
foreign market. In the interest of brevity, we focus our analysis on I20/R20 and I5/R5 models.
Table 10 reports I20/R20 portfolio performance for each country in our international sam-
ple, ordered by the monthly average stock count in each country. The left side of the table
shows results for H-L strategies based on equally weighted decile portfolios. We report per-
38
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 39 =====
Table 11: International Transfer and H-L Decile Portfolio Sharpe Ratios (I5/R5)
Equal Weight Value WeightStock Count Re-train Direct Transfer Transfer−Re-train Re-train Direct Transfer Transfer−Re-trainGlobal 17206 0.18 5.20 5.03*** 0.46 -3.05 -3.50Japan 3056 3.56 5.68 2.12*** 0.96 1.23 0.27Canada 2924 9.01 12.12 3.11*** 2.98 5.34 2.36***India 1861 2.52 -1.46 -3.98 0.67 -1.08 -1.75UnitedKingdom 1783 0.03 -0.23 -0.26 1.04 0.98 -0.06France 955 2.47 4.09 1.63*** 1.12 2.10 0.98***SouthKorea 911 3.64 1.66 -1.97 1.74 2.39 0.65***Australia 886 8.28 11.37 3.09*** 2.78 3.48 0.70***Germany 868 -0.29 2.43 2.72*** -0.01 2.93 2.94***China 662 2.26 -2.19 -4.45 0.66 -0.95 -1.62HongKong 543 1.97 5.35 3.37*** 0.72 2.08 1.36***Singapore 284 6.98 6.79 -0.20 2.48 3.94 1.46***Sweden 260 5.43 6.99 1.56*** 0.83 2.37 1.54***Italy 241 2.14 3.55 1.40*** 0.76 1.60 0.84***Switzerland 240 0.48 0.67 0.19 1.30 2.62 1.33***Denmark 223 1.94 3.56 1.62*** 1.18 1.85 0.68***Netherlands 212 -0.30 3.75 4.05*** 0.11 1.67 1.56***Greece 201 2.74 3.26 0.51** 0.98 1.88 0.90***Belgium 171 0.73 4.34 3.60*** 0.73 2.88 2.15***Spain 170 1.62 0.28 -1.35 0.68 1.02 0.34*Norway 169 0.79 3.38 2.59*** 1.11 2.88 1.77***Portugal 121 0.30 2.64 2.33*** 0.93 1.40 0.47**NewZealand 114 0.50 2.34 1.84*** 0.65 1.19 0.54***Finland 113 2.66 5.38 2.72*** 0.95 2.55 1.60***Austria 110 0.14 0.67 0.53** 0.66 1.05 0.39**Ireland 75 0.47 1.80 1.34*** 0.31 1.99 1.69***Russia 53 -0.72 2.19 2.91*** -0.13 0.44 0.57***
Average 1274 2.21 3.54 1.34 0.99 1.73 0.75Average (excluding Global) 661 2.28 3.48 1.19 1.01 1.92 0.91
Note: The table reports annualized out-of-sample Sharpe ratios for H-L decile spread portfolios within each
country. We report the average monthly stock count by country, the image-based strategy from re-training the
I5/R5 CNN using local data, and the image-based strategy directly transfers the I5/R5 model estimated in
US data without re-training. Sharpe ratio gains (Transfer−Re-train) accompanied by ***,**,* are signiﬁcant
at the 1%, 5% and 10% signiﬁcance level, respectively.
formance for the CNN forecasts trained from scratch on country-speciﬁc data, for forecasts
based on direct application of the CNN model estimated in US data, and for the diﬀerence.
The last row shows the simple average of each column.
In 19 out of 26 countries, transfer learning produces a Sharpe ratio gain over the locally
re-trained model (for equal weight portfolios), and the gain is statistically signiﬁcant in 14 of
these. In 15 out of 26 countries, transfer from the US model produces a Sharpe ratio in excess
of 0.5. This is only achieved in 8 countries for locally re-trained models. On average, transfer
from the US model produces a Sharpe ratio of 0.7, more than doubling the performance of
locally re-trained models.
The comparative gains from transfer versus local training are similar in value weight strate-
gies, shown in the right three columns of the table. In this case the gain in Sharpe ratio from
transfer learning is signiﬁcantly positive for 13 out of 26 countries. On average, transfer from
39
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 40 =====
Figure 12: Sharpe Ratio Gains From International Transfer
I20/R20 Equal Weight I20/R20 Value Weight
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000
Stock Count
−1.0
−0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
Sharpe Ratio Gain
Japan
UnitedKingdo 
China
SouthKorea
India
Canada
Ger any
Australia
HongKong
France
Singapore
Italy
Sweden
Switzerland
Netherlands
Norway
Spain
Belgiu 
Greece
Den ark
Russia
Finland
NewZealand
Austria
Portugal
Ireland
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000
Stock Count
−0.75
−0.50
−0.25
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Sharpe Ratio Gain
Japan
UnitedKingdomChina
SouthKorea
India
Canada
Germany
Austra ia
HongKong
France
Singapore
Ita y
Sweden
Switzer and
Nether ands
Norway
Spain
Be gium
GreeceDenmark
Russia
Fin and
NewZea and
Austria
Portuga 
Ire and
I5/R5 Equal Weight I5/R5 Value Weight
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000
Stock Count
−4
−2
0
2
4
Sharpe Ratio Gain
Japan
UnitedKingdo 
China
SouthKorea
India
Canada
Ger any
Australia
HongKong
France
Singapore
Italy Sweden
Switzerland
Netherlands
Norway
Spain
Belgiu 
Greece
Den ark
RussiaFinland
NewZealand
Austria
Portugal
Ireland
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000
Stock Cou t
−2
−1
0
1
2
3
Sharpe Ratio Gai 
Japa 
U itedKi gdom
Chi a
SouthKorea
I dia
Ca ada
Germa y
Australia
Ho gKo g
Fra ce
Si gapore
Italy
Swede 
Switzerla d
Netherla ds
Norway
Spai 
Belgium
Greece
De mark
Russia
Fi la d
NewZeala d
Austria
Portugal
Irela d
Note: The ﬁgures show annualized out-of-sample Sharpe ratio gains from I5/R5 and I20/R20 transfer learning
(both equal-weight and value-weight strategies) versus the average number of stocks in each country.
US models more than doubles the Sharpe ratio of value weight strategies relative to locally
re-trained models. The evidence is broadly similar and stronger for higher frequency forecasts,
as shown in Table 11 for I5/R5 CNN models.
Figure 12 summarizes the beneﬁts of international transfer learning by plotting the Sharpe
ratio gains reported in Tables 10 and 11 against the number of stocks in each country. Most
international markets are small and thus clustered on the left side of the plots. In these
countries, portfolio Sharpe ratios tend to especially beneﬁt from US transfer relative to locally
trained CNN models. But for larger markets on the right side of the plots, the expected gains
(based on the best ﬁt line) are small or slightly negative. This suggests there are beneﬁts to
40
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 41 =====
Table 12: Correlation Between CNN Predictions and Stock Characteristics
CNN Dollar Zero Price
Model MOM STR WSTR Beta Volatility 52WH Bid-Ask Volume Trade Delay Size Illiq.
I5/R5 -0.00 -0.17 -0.34 0.05 -0.05 0.08 -0.03 0.13 -0.10 -0.03 0.12 -0.12
I5/R20 -0.01 -0.14 -0.32 0.05 -0.04 -0.04 -0.03 0.11 -0.09 -0.03 0.10 -0.11
I5/R60 0.04 -0.04 -0.11 0.01 -0.11 0.11 -0.10 0.15 -0.09 -0.03 0.16 -0.15
I20/R5 0.06 -0.09 -0.34 0.00 -0.13 0.13 -0.13 0.16 -0.07 -0.03 0.18 -0.17
I20/R20 0.10 0.04 -0.24 -0.01 -0.17 -0.15 -0.15 0.16 -0.05 -0.03 0.20 -0.18
I20/R60 0.13 0.21 -0.02 -0.01 -0.22 0.21 -0.20 0.25 -0.11 -0.05 0.29 -0.27
I60/R5 0.21 -0.06 -0.26 -0.05 -0.24 0.20 -0.25 0.20 -0.02 -0.03 0.27 -0.23
I60/R20 0.22 0.08 -0.11 -0.07 -0.26 -0.20 -0.25 0.20 -0.05 -0.03 0.28 -0.25
I60/R60 0.25 0.10 -0.01 -0.06 -0.28 0.23 -0.27 0.22 -0.01 -0.05 0.31 -0.26
Note: The table reports average cross-sectional correlations among model forecasts averaged over all period
in the test sample.
local re-training when there is suﬃcient data, likely due to some degree of heterogeneity in
predictive patterns across countries that transfer learning does not account for. A direction for
further optimization of image-based prediction models would combine a global image model
to capture shared diﬀerences with a country-speciﬁc model that accommodates some degree
of heterogeneity. The model weights in this combination could be dictated by the relative
informativeness of global and country-speciﬁc data in a Bayesian fashion.
6 What Does the CNN Learn?
Interpreting a CNN is diﬃcult due to its recursive non-linear structure. We attempt to
interpret the predictive patterns identiﬁed by the CNN using three approaches. First, we
relate CNN ﬁts to a collection of conceptually related (price, risk, and liquidity) signals widely
studied in the literature. Second, we investigate regression-based linear approximations to the
CNN using the data underlying the CNN’s image input. Third, we use a CNN visualization
method from the machine learning literature to understand how diﬀerent image examples
activate the regions of the CNN to trigger “up” or “down” return predictions. Our attempts
at interpretation are admittedly incomplete (as in the CNN literature more broadly). Yet
they achieve partial success by oﬀering some visibility into the complex inner workings of the
CNN model.
6.1 Association with Other Predictors
How unique are image-based forecasts compared to standard characteristics in the litera-
ture? We focus our comparison on measures of recent price trends (MOM, STR, WSTR, and
41
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 42 =====
Table 13: CNN Predictions and Standard Stock Characteristics
I5/R20 I20/R20 I60/R20
MOM -0.05*** 0.07*** 0.41***
STR -0.04*** 0.42*** 0.47***
Lag Weekly Return -0.77*** -0.80*** -0.48***
Beta 0.12*** 0.08*** 0.10***
Volatility -0.08*** -0.22*** -0.29***
52WH 0.04*** 0.05*** 0.05***
Bid-Ask 0.05*** 0.05*** 0.20***
Dollar Volume 0.05 -0.15*** -1.86***
Zero Trade -0.02 0.18*** 0.42***
Price Delay -0.01 -0.02** -0.01
Size 0.11*** 0.59*** 0.96***
Illiquidity -0.25*** -0.35*** -2.10***
McFadden R2 4.61 7.03 11.92
Note: The table reports slope coeﬃcients and R2 from panel logistic regressions of CNN model forecasts on
stock characteristics. Panel regressions are estimated during the test sample using CNN models estimated in
the training sample. Coeﬃcients accompanied by ***,**,* are signiﬁcant at the 1%, 5% and 10% signiﬁcance
level, respectively.
distance from 52-week high), risk (beta and volatility), and liquidity (bid-ask spread, dollar
volume, number of no-trade days, price delay, size, and Amihud illiquidity).15 Table 12 reports
univariate correlations between each of these characteristics and each image-based forecast.
We estimate period-by-period cross-sectional correlations among cross-sectional ranks of each
variable, then report the time series average of correlation estimates during the test sample.
Among the largest associations is WSTR, which has a correlation −26% to−34% for models
supervised by future 5-day returns, consistent with the CNN picking up in part on a weekly
short-term reversal pattern. The WSTR correlation drops close to zero when CNN models
are supervised by 60-day returns. In a similar vein, MOM has its highest correlation (25%)
with long-horizon forecasts from large images (I60/R60), but essentially zero correlation with
short-horizon forecasts from small images (I5/R5). Image-based predictions from the CNN
also resemble non-price ﬁrm characteristics. Other strong correlates are size, volatility, bid-ask
spread, illiquidity, and dollar volume, all of which reach correlations near 30% and associate
most strongly with forecasts from 60-day images.
These correlations are an impressive feat for the CNN. It shows that the CNN model
has the ability to discern meaningful predictive information from data that is represented
abstractly in the form of an image. MOM, STR, and other common price trend variations are
predictive features that have been manually curated by human researchers over a decades long
15For variable deﬁnitions and references, see Table A.6 of Gu et al. (2020).
42
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 43 =====
research process. But the CNN is oblivious to human-engineered features; instead, feature
engineering is fully automated and integrated into the CNN model itself. Without requiring
hand-crafted trend signals, the CNN still manages to identify trend-like features and liquidity
features in the raw images.
Table 14: CNN, Future Returns, and Standard Stock Characteristics
I5/R20 I20/R20 I60/R20
CNN 0.37*** 0.37*** 0.54*** 0.54*** 0.46*** 0.45***
MOM 0.17*** 0.18*** 0.17*** 0.16*** 0.17*** 0.12***
STR -0.02* -0.01 -0.02* -0.05*** -0.02 -0.09***
Lag Weekly Return -0.19*** -0.07*** -0.19*** -0.05*** -0.19*** -0.13***
Beta -0.05*** -0.05*** -0.05*** -0.05*** -0.05*** -0.05***
Volatility -0.09*** -0.09*** -0.09*** -0.06*** -0.09*** -0.05**
52WH -0.00 -0.01 -0.00 -0.02 -0.01 -0.03**
Bid-Ask -0.13*** -0.13*** -0.12*** -0.14*** -0.12*** -0.17***
Dollar Volume -0.08* -0.09** -0.08* -0.09** -0.08* 0.07*
Zero Trade -0.02 -0.02 -0.02 -0.05** -0.02 -0.07***
Price Delay -0.00 -0.00 -0.00 -0.00 -0.00 -0.01
Size 0.16*** 0.17*** 0.17*** 0.13*** 0.17*** 0.06
Illiquidity -0.01 0.01 -0.01 0.02 -0.01 0.14***
McFaddenR2 0.84 0.12 0.93 1.73 0.12 1.79 1.23 0.12 1.30
Note: The table reports slope coeﬃcients and R2 from panel logistic regressions of future returns on image-
based CNN model forecasts and standard stock characteristics. Panel regressions are estimated during the
test sample using CNN models estimated in the training sample. Coeﬃcients accompanied by ***,**,* are
signiﬁcant at the 1%, 5% and 10% signiﬁcance level, respectively.
Table 13 shows the joint explanatory power for image-based predictions from all character-
istics simultaneously (this table focuses on 20-day CNN predictions for brevity). We estimate
a panel logistic regression using cross-sectional ranks of all regressors. In multiple regression,
the signiﬁcant predictors are MOM, STR, WSTR, volatility, 52WH, bid-ask spread, and size.
The McFadden logistic R2 ranges from 4.6% to 11.9%. So, while the CNN is able to detect
signals within images that are signiﬁcantly correlated with other well known predictors, the
variation in image-based predictions is by and large unique.
Next, Table 14 reports logistic regressions of future stock returns on image-based forecasts
while simultaneously controlling for the other characteristics. To remain comparable with
the CNN model, the dependent variable is an indicator for a positive 20-day realized return.
We estimate the regressions using only the test sample data (so that CNN parameters are
estimated from an entirely distinct sample). For each CNN speciﬁcation, we estimate three
regressions, one using only the CNN forecast, one using stock characteristics and excluding the
CNN forecast, and one joint regression using all predictors. We see that, across CNN models,
the image-based prediction tends to be the strongest return forecaster. The McFadden R2
due to image-based predictions alone ranges from 0.8% to 1.2% depending on the model con-
ﬁguration. The R2 from all non-image based characteristics together is 0.1%. Coeﬃcients on
CNN image-based predictions are nearly identical in univariate and multivariate regressions.
43
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 44 =====
Likewise, a large fraction of the predictive R2 in the multivariate model is accounted for by
the univariate CNN prediction, indicating that unique aspects of the CNN signal and not the
previously studied characteristics drive the CNN’s predictive power.
6.2 Image-Based Linear Approximation
What do the CNN models detect in images to produce accurate forecasts that are diﬀerentiated
from traditional stock-level predictors? In this section, we use linear approximations of the
CNN based on the raw market data that underlie our images. To do so, we must ﬁrst decide
on a representation of the price history data that is amenable for regression. The beauty of
the CNN model, and the reason for its widespread usage in machine learning applications, is
that it has the ability to extract predictive features from text with minimal data engineering
on the part of the researcher. This contrasts with the standard approach from the momentum
and reversal literature, which makes a number of human feature engineering choices—for
example, representing historical data as returns rather than price levels to make series more
comparable across assets. Our linear approximation analysis highlights the typical reliance
on human feature engineering, because now we must also decide how to transform not only
close prices, but also intra-day high and low prices, open prices, price moving averages, and
volumes to make them relatable in the cross section.
To make linear regressions comparable with the image CNN model, we scale all price series
such that the maximum of all prices appearing in the image (usually the maximum high price,
but sometimes the maximum moving average price) is normalized to one and the minimum is
normalized to zero. Daily volumes are likewise scaled by the maximum volume appearing in
the image.
Our regressions focus on 5-day images. 5-day images contain relatively few data points
(ﬁve observations each for open, high, low, and close price, volume, and moving average
price), which makes them a convenient context for attempting to isolate image attributes that
contribute to CNN success. In particular, there are few enough observations in a 5-day image
that we can add each as a separate regressor in a linear model without risk of severe overﬁt.
Columns (1) through (3) of Table 15 pursue a linear approximation to the CNN forecast
itself, as in Table 13. The dependent variable is the out-of-sample forecast generated by
the CNN model for 5-day images, and the independent variables are data underlying 5-day
images re-scaled to mimic the image representation. Across all return horizons (5, 20, and
60 days), the most important explanatory variables for the CNN forecast are the ﬁrst lags of
closing, high, and low prices, with the next most important variables being the ﬁrst lag of
trading volume and moving average price. These variables generally have consistent sign and
magnitude for all return horizons. Compared to the ﬁrst lag, lags two through ﬁve have a
44
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 45 =====
Table 15: Linear Regressions Using Market Data With Image Scaling
CNN as Dep. Var. Positive Return Indicator as Dep. Var.
5D5P 5D20P 5D60P 5D5P 5D20P 5D60P
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12)
CNN 4.07* 4.28* 5.09* 6.27 6.07* 7.63*
open lag 1 -0.57* 0.01 0.29* -0.23 -0.03 -0.07 -0.02 0.01 -0.07
open lag 2 0.27* 0.55* 0.22* 0.08 0.04* 0.12 0.02 0.05 -0.00
open lag 3 0.16* -0.29* -0.09* 0.05 0.01 -0.02 0.01 -0.13 -0.04
open lag 4 0.04* -0.13* -0.06* 0.02 0.00 -0.03 -0.00 -0.04 -0.01
open lag 5 0.10* 0.21* 0.45* 0.03 0.01 0.02 0.04 -0.04 -0.03
high lag 1 2.64* 0.99* 1.07* 0.61 0.11* 0.36 0.12 0.39* -0.06
high lag 2 -0.27* 0.47* 0.77* -0.07 -0.06 0.07 -0.05 0.13* -0.18
high lag 3 -0.43* -0.18* -0.20* -0.06 0.03* -0.01 -0.00 0.07 0.05
high lag 4 -0.47* -0.14* -0.22* -0.04 0.05* 0.04 0.02 0.03 0.05
high lag 5 -0.13* 0.31* -0.38* -0.05 0.01 0.09 0.02 0.03 -0.05
low lag 1 1.89* 0.94* -0.06* 0.64 0.07* 0.23 -0.04 0.08* 0.14*
low lag 2 -0.17* 0.87* 0.74* -0.08 -0.01 0.04 -0.09 0.15* -0.06
low lag 3 -0.19* -0.06* -0.18* -0.13 -0.04 -0.07 -0.00 0.02 0.09*
low lag 4 0.28* 0.41* -0.13* -0.03 -0.02 -0.02 -0.03 -0.02 0.03
low lag 5 -0.12* -0.14* -0.37* -0.06 0.03* -0.02 0.04 -0.08 0.11*
close lag 1 -5.36* -3.91* -2.19* -1.23 0.01 -0.75 0.15 -0.58 0.23
close lag 2 0.72* 0.32* 0.19* 0.18 -0.02 0.13 0.04 0.01 -0.02
close lag 3 0.64* 0.83* 0.29* 0.10 0.01 0.14 0.05 -0.11 -0.07
close lag 4 0.73* 0.29* 0.20* 0.07 -0.00 0.12 0.10 0.02 -0.01
close lag 5 0.49* 0.55* 0.39* 0.09 0.01 0.11 0.07 -0.04 -0.01
ma lag 1 -1.33* -1.06* -0.56* -0.16 0.00 -0.05 0.08 -0.14 0.02
ma lag 2 0.31* 0.35* -0.01 -0.11 -0.16 -0.31 -0.50 0.13 -0.19
ma lag 3 -0.03* -0.77* 0.20* 0.04 -0.03 0.08 0.06 0.43* 0.14
ma lag 4 -0.02 0.34* 0.63* 0.21 0.13* -0.29 -0.10 -0.18 -0.06
ma lag 5 0.24* -0.45* -0.61* -0.14 -0.06 0.09 0.10 -0.03 0.01
vol lag 1 0.81* 0.71* 0.42* 0.10 -0.03 0.08 -0.07 0.03 -0.11
vol lag 2 0.21* 0.52* 0.58* 0.00 -0.02 0.05 -0.05 0.05* -0.10
vol lag 3 0.13* 0.15* 0.57* 0.00 -0.00 -0.01 -0.01 0.06* -0.09
vol lag 4 -0.07* 0.12* 0.09* -0.02 0.01 -0.02 -0.01 -0.05 -0.03
vol lag 5 0.05* 0.01 0.30* -0.02 -0.01 -0.04 -0.01 -0.00 -0.01
McFaddenR2 35.29 33.32 21.96 1.35 0.99 1.38 0.94 0.58 0.99 1.56 0.50 1.69
Note: Results of logistic regressions on out-of-sample CNN forecasts and realized future return indicators
on daily price and volume data. Panel regressions are estimated during the test sample using CNN models
estimated in the training sample. Coeﬃcients accompanied by * are signiﬁcant at the 1% signiﬁcance level.
small linear role in the CNN forecast, though some of these are statistically signiﬁcant. The
regression-based approximation to the true non-linear CNN construction explains roughly 20%
to 35% of the variation in image-based predictions. But CNN predictions are built only and
entirely from this raw market data. Therefore, more than half of the variation in image-based
predictions is attributable to non-linear functions of the underlying market data.
Next, we use the linear speciﬁcation to directly forecast returns with the approach used
in Table 14. Regressions are grouped by supervising return window (5, 20, or 60 days). As a
45
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 46 =====
frame of reference, columns (4), (7), and (10) report return predictive regressions using only
the out-of-sample CNN forecast. Next, columns (5), (8), and (11) show another approach
to linearly approximating the CNN by directly predicting returns using image-scaled market
series. We ﬁnd that the largest regression coeﬃcients tend to be on the ﬁrst lag of the high,
low, and close prices. Together, their coeﬃcients suggest a signal that is roughly equal to
1
2(High+Low)−Close for the previous day. In other words, future returns tend to be high
when the price closes at the low end of the recent high-low range. The regression also isolates
features that look like deviations of the lagged prices from their recent averages. Recent rises
in volume are also a notable predictor of positive future returns. These patterns are consistent
with the coeﬃcient estimates from columns (1) through (3), indicating that the CNN extracts
similar patterns to those isolated by the linear model. Though, again, the linear pattern
explains less than half of the content in CNN predictions.
How diﬀerentiated, and how useful, are the CNN’s non-linear predictions compared to a
linear model? Columns (6), (9), and (12) answer this by regressing of realized returns on CNN
predictions while controlling for the image-scaled market data. First, we see that controlling
for the underlying market data slightly increases the predictive coeﬃcient on the CNN-based
forecast. The logistic regression R2 using only the CNN as a predictor ranges from 0.9% to
1.6%. The linear approximation delivers an R2 of 0.5% to 1.0%, and the combined R2 in the
third column of each group of regressions is nearly the same as the CNN-only regression. This
indicates that the non-linear component of the CNN forecast incorporates useful additional
information from the underlying images relative to the linear model.
Table 16 compares the performance of long-short decile spread portfolios formed on CNN
forecasts versus the regression-based linear approximation. This is reported in the rows la-
beled “Linear (image scale)”. It shows that the linear approximation to the CNN delivers a
successful trading strategy, but is generally inferior to the full non-linear CNN model (and
generally superior to the benchmark models reported earlier). The linear approximation is
most competitive at longer horizons, where the linear 60-day holding period strategies in some
cases outperform the full CNN.
The strength of trading strategies based on the linear model begs the question: is the
image representation necessary at all? Or would a linear model with a traditional time series
representation of past data work just as well? To demonstrate the key role of representing
market data as an image, we also study linear prediction models based on more “standard”
time series representations. Of course some scaling choice must be made for market data to
be comparable across stocks in a linear model. One obvious candidate is to scale all prices
by the ﬁrst closing price in the historical data window (i.e., the closing price either 5, 20, or
46
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 47 =====
Table 16: Portfolio Performance of CNN versus Linear Model
5-day Images 20-day Images 60-day Images
Equal Weight Value Weight Equal Weight Value Weight Equal Weight Value Weight
5-day Return Horizon
CNN 7.15 1.49 6.75 1.74 4.89 1.44
Linear (image scale) 5.56 1.60 4.82 1.52 4.91 1.83
Linear (return scale) 2.50 0.23 1.19 0.36 1.14 0.46
CNN1D (image scale) 7.20 1.66 7.88 1.84 7.85 2.61
CNN1D (return scale) 5.33 1.71 5.36 1.52 5.45 1.85
20-day Return Horizon
CNN 2.35 0.45 2.16 0.49 1.29 0.17
Linear (image scale) 2.07 0.66 1.99 0.44 1.23 0.34
Linear (return scale) 0.51 0.11 0.41 0.33 0.43 0.30
CNN1D (image scale) 2.49 0.70 2.72 0.59 2.45 0.88
CNN1D (return scale) 1.47 0.67 1.45 0.57 1.46 0.44
60-day Return Horizon
CNN 1.30 0.47 0.37 0.32 0.43 0.23
Linear (image scale) 1.19 0.54 0.75 0.43 0.74 0.63
Linear (return scale) -0.04 -0.07 0.07 0.19 0.13 0.17
CNN1D (image scale) 1.28 0.48 1.04 0.44 0.76 0.49
CNN1D (return scale) 0.24 0.19 0.35 0.21 0.24 -0.06
Note: The table reports annualized Sharpe ratios of long-short decile spread portfolios (with equal weights or
value weights) sorted on out-of-sample predicted up probability from each model. “CNN” is the baseline 2D
CNN, “linear” is the linear regression model, and “CNN1D” is the time series CNN model. “Return scale”
indicates that market prices are normalized by the closing price at the start of each image while “image scale”
indicates the high/low price normalization used to produce images.
60 days ago) and likewise for volume. We refer to this as “return scale” because prices are
essentially represented as cumulative returns. The trading strategy based on a linear model
with this data representation is shown in the rows “Linear (return scale).” While this model
also produces positive trading performance across the board, it is substantially weaker than
the linear model with image-scaled market data. For example, with 20 days of historical data,
the equal weight 20-day holding period strategy drops from an annualized Sharpe ratio of
2.0 in the “Linear (image scale)” case to 0.4 for “Linear (return scale).” For value weight
strategies, “Linear (return scale)” is again worse than “Linear (image scale)” for all the nine
cases.
Cumulative return scaling continues to look at prices in levels. In unreported analysis,
we use another representation return that converts prices into daily returns; i.e., features are
converted from levels to changes. Given the standard asset pricing approach of building price
trend signals from past returns, this is perhaps the most natural data representation for a
linear model. But the trading strategy performance from the daily returns representation is
inferior to of the price level representations (and is omitted from the table). As an example,
47
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 48 =====
the I20R20 linear model using daily returns and daily volume changes produces a decile spread
Sharpe ratio of 0.42 and 0.30 for equal and value weight strategies.
As a last point of emphasis for the importance of the image representation, we analyze
1D CNN models. These are time series CNN models in the sense that they use a continuous
numerical representation of market data time series, and perform convolution only by sliding
convolutional ﬁlters along the time series dimension of the data matrix. “CNN1D (image
scale)” reports a trading strategy when the 1D CNN is applied to market data time series
with image scaling, and “CNN1D (return scale)” shows the case with data normalized by
initial closing price and volume. Two interesting points emerge. The ﬁrst is that with image
scaling, the 1D CNN performs roughly as well as, and in some cases better than, the baseline
2D CNN model. This, however, is not because the 1D CNN is superior to the 2D CNN for
return prediction more generally. We see that “CNN1D (return scale)” broadly underperforms
the baseline 2D CNN, as well as underperforming the “CNN1D (image scale)” model. In other
words, the key performance diﬀerentiator, be it for a 2D CNN, a 1D CNN, or a linear model,
is using an image representation. Once the data is represented as an image, either literally (as
in our baseline case) or ﬁguratively (using image scaling of time series data), a deep learning
model can use historical market data to produce powerful return forecasts.
6.3 Visualizing the Model
The machine learning literature has long searched for methods to aid interpretation of deep
learning models. Our third approach for interpreting our estimated CNNs uses a visualization
technique from the machine learning literature known as gradient-weighted class activation
mapping, or “grad-CAM” (Selvaraju et al., 2017). For each class (“up” or “down” returns
in our setting), Grad-CAM produces heatmaps for each layer of the CNN that illustrate
the regions of the input most important for predicting a class. When plotted for individual
observations, these activation heatmaps help describe which aspects of the image are the most
important determinants of the CNN’s prediction.
In the interest of space, we focus our illustration on one variant of our CNN, the I20R20
model. We randomly draw ten images from the last year of our sample (2019) that the CNN
classiﬁed as “up,” and ten images it classiﬁed as down. Figure 13 shows the original image
and the grad-CAM heatmap at each of the CNN’s four layers. For both “up” and “down”
examples, the CNN is most intensively activated amid high volatility—i.e., when the high-low
range is wide. In the second and third layers, we see that the model pays special attention to
open and close prices, with these appearing as especially bright points. We see further that, in
the fourth layer, higher volume days accentuate the brightness of the price series. The volume
region itself is only activated in the fourth layer on days with especially high volume, in
48
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 49 =====
Figure 13: I20R20 Grad-CAM for 20 Images from 2019
(a) Images Receiving “Up” Classiﬁcation
(b) Images Receiving “Down” Classiﬁcation
Note: Brighter regions of the heatmap correspond to regions with the higher activation. For each panel, the
ﬁrst row is the original images followed by the grad-CAM for each layer in the CNN.
which case the volume bars blend together with the price bars to form wide vertical activation
regions. We also see that “up” examples show especially high activation in the upper regions
of the image and “down” examples are most heavily activated in the bottom half of the image.
The machine learning literature continues to grapple with interpretation of highly predic-
tive yet complex models, and our model is an example of the interpretation challenges that
deep learning faces. Nonetheless, the grad-CAM visualization helps illustrate the complicated
49
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 50 =====
non-linear associations between price, high-low range, and volume that together translate into
successful return prediction.
7 Conclusion
We encode market data as images and analyze them with a return prediction CNN. The
CNN constructs image-based forecasts that in general outperform (and are largely distinct
from) traditional price trend signals in the asset pricing literature. We show that the predic-
tive patterns isolated by the CNN are highly robust to variations in model speciﬁcation and
controlling for a wide range of alternative predictor variables. One of the most compelling
aspects of CNN robustness is its transferability to other time scales and international markets.
Models trained on daily data are similarly powerful when transferred to data sets sampled at
lower frequencies, and models trained on US data but applied to international stock markets
outperform models trained on data from local markets.
In a sprawling survey of 692 asset managers in ﬁve countries, Menkhoﬀ (2010) ﬁnds that
87% of those surveyed rely on some form of technical analysis in their process, and 18% of
respondents indicate it is a major part of their investment process. As the Lo et al. (2000)
at the start of this article notes, technical analysis is a primarily visual mode of analysis. In
light of this, our CNN model has potentially intriguing implications for economic modeling.
If trading decisions implied by a statistical representation beneﬁt from being more closely
aligned with the formats in which investors intake their market perceptions for eventual trading
decisions, the CNN becomes more than a pure statistical tool and moves closer to a model
of investor perception. Our ideal research agenda is to develop a model that can translate
visual data into an optimal portfolio in a way that mimics the human perceptions and decision
processes. In this paper, we take a ﬁrst modest step in this direction by extracting trading
signals from price images using a CNN model.
Market data images, when combined with a CNN, constitute a new and powerful tool
for understanding market dynamics and forming eﬃcient portfolios. Yet the images that we
generate and analyze are by any measure rudimentary. In light of this, our ﬁndings highlight
image analysis as a future research direction with great potential to improve our understanding
of ﬁnancial market phenomena.
50
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 51 =====
References
Bajgrowicz, Pierre, and Olivier Scaillet, 2012, Technical trading revisited: False discoveries,
persistence tests, and transaction costs, Journal of Financial Economics 106, 473–491.
Barberis, Nicholas, Andrei Shleifer, and Robert Vishny, 1998, A model of investor sentiment,
Journal of ﬁnancial economics 49, 307–343.
Blume, Lawrence, David Easley, and Maureen O’hara, 1994, Market statistics and technical
analysis: The role of volume, The Journal of Finance 49, 153–181.
Brock, William, Josef Lakonishok, and Blake LeBaron, 1992, Simple technical trading rules
and the stochastic properties of stock returns, The Journal of ﬁnance 47, 1731–1764.
Brown, David P, and Robert H Jennings, 1989, On technical analysis,The Review of Financial
Studies 2, 527–551.
Campbell, John Y, and Samuel B Thompson, 2008, Predicting excess stock returns out of
sample: Can anything beat the historical average?, The Review of Financial Studies 21,
1509–1531.
Chen, Jou-Fan, Wei-Lun Chen, Chun-Ping Huang, Szu-Hao Huang, and An-Pin Chen, 2016,
Financial time-series data analysis using deep convolutional neural networks, in 2016 7th
International conference on cloud computing and big data (CCBD) , 87–92, IEEE.
Cont, Rama, 2005, Long range dependence in ﬁnancial markets, in Fractals in engineering ,
159–179 (Springer).
Dalal, Navneet, and Bill Triggs, 2005, Histograms of oriented gradients for human detec-
tion, in 2005 IEEE computer society conference on computer vision and pattern recognition
(CVPR’05), volume 1, 886–893, IEEE.
Detzel, Andrew, Hong Liu, Jack Strauss, Guofu Zhou, and Yingzi Zhu, 2020, Learning and
predictability via technical analysis: Evidence from bitcoin and stocks with hard-to-value
fundamentals, Financial Management .
Dobrev, Dobrislav, 2007, Capturing volatility from large price moves: generalized range the-
ory and applications, Manuscript, Department of Finance, Kellogg School, Northwestern
University .
Fama, Eugene F, and Kenneth R French, 1988, Dividend yields and expected stock returns,
Journal of ﬁnancial economics 22, 3–25.
51
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 52 =====
Freund, Yoav, and Robert E Schapire, 1995, A desicion-theoretic generalization of on-line
learning and an application to boosting, in European conference on computational learning
theory, 23–37, Springer.
Glorot, Xavier, and Yoshua Bengio, 2010, Understanding the diﬃculty of training deep feedfor-
ward neural networks, in Proceedings of the thirteenth international conference on artiﬁcial
intelligence and statistics , 249–256.
Goodfellow, Ian, Yoshua Bengio, and Aaron Courville, 2016, Deep learning (MIT press).
Grundy, Bruce D, and Maureen McNichols, 1989, Trade and the revelation of information
through prices and direct disclosure, The Review of Financial Studies 2, 495–526.
Gu, Shihao, Bryan Kelly, and Dacheng Xiu, 2020, Empirical asset pricing via machine learning,
Review of Financial Studies 33, 2223–2273.
Han, Yufeng, Guofu Zhou, and Yingzi Zhu, 2016, A trend factor: Any economic gains from
using information over investment horizons?,Journal of Financial Economics 122, 352–375.
Hoseinzade, Ehsan, and Saman Haratizadeh, 2019, Cnnpred: Cnn-based stock market predic-
tion using a diverse set of variables, Expert Systems with Applications 129, 273–285.
Hu, Guosheng, Yuxin Hu, Kai Yang, Zehao Yu, Flood Sung, Zhihong Zhang, Fei Xie, Jianguo
Liu, Neil Robertson, Timpathy Hospedales, et al., 2018, Deep stock representation learning:
From candlestick charts to investment decisions, in 2018 IEEE international conference on
acoustics, speech and signal processing (ICASSP) , 2706–2710, IEEE.
Ioﬀe, Sergey, and Christian Szegedy, 2015, Batch normalization: Accelerating deep network
training by reducing internal covariate shift, arXiv preprint arXiv:1502.03167 .
Jegadeesh, Narasimhan, and Sheridan Titman, 1993, Returns to buying winners and selling
losers: Implications for stock market eﬃciency, The Journal of ﬁnance 48, 65–91.
Kelly, Bryan, and Seth Pruitt, 2013, Market expectations in the cross-section of present values,
The Journal of Finance 68, 1721–1756.
Kim, Taewook, and Ha Young Kim, 2019, Forecasting stock prices with a feature fusion
lstm-cnn model using diﬀerent representations of the same data, PloS one 14, e0212320.
Kinga, D, and J Ba Adam, 2015, A method for stochastic optimization, in International
Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) , volume 5.
52
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 53 =====
Lee, Jinho, Raehyun Kim, Yookyung Koh, and Jaewoo Kang, 2019, Global stock market
prediction based on stock chart images using deep q-network, IEEE Access 7, 167260–
167277.
Lo, Andrew W, and Jasmina Hasanhodzic, 2010, The heretics of ﬁnance: Conversations with
leading practitioners of technical analysis , volume 16 (John Wiley and Sons).
Lo, Andrew W, Harry Mamaysky, and Jiang Wang, 2000, Foundations of technical analysis:
Computational algorithms, statistical inference, and empirical implementation, The journal
of ﬁnance 55, 1705–1765.
Maas, Andrew L, Awni Y Hannun, and Andrew Y Ng, 2013, Rectiﬁer nonlinearities improve
neural network acoustic models, in Proc. icml, volume 30, 3.
Mandelbrot, Benoit B, 2013, Fractals and scaling in ﬁnance: Discontinuity, concentration,
risk. Selecta volume E (Springer Science & Business Media).
Menkhoﬀ, Lukas, 2010, The use of technical analysis by fund managers: International evi-
dence, Journal of Banking & Finance 34, 2573–2586.
Neely, Christopher J., David E. Rapack, Jun Tu, and Guofu Zhou, 2014, Forecasting the
equity risk premia: The role of technical indicators, Management Science 60, 1772–1791.
Pan, Sinno Jialin, and Qiang Yang, 2009, A survey on transfer learning, IEEE Transactions
on knowledge and data engineering 22, 1345–1359.
Papageorgiou, Constantine P, Michael Oren, and Tomaso Poggio, 1998, A general framework
for object detection, in Sixth International Conference on Computer Vision (IEEE Cat. No.
98CH36271), 555–562, IEEE.
Parkinson, Michael, 1980, The extreme value method for estimating the variance of the rate
of return, The Journal of Business 53, 61–65.
Schwert, G. William, 2003, Chapter 15 anomalies and market eﬃciency, in Financial Markets
and Asset Pricing , volume 1 of Handbook of the Economics of Finance, 939 – 974 (Elsevier).
Selvaraju, Ramprasaath R, Michael Cogswell, Abhishek Das, Ramakrishna Vedantam, Devi
Parikh, and Dhruv Batra, 2017, Grad-cam: Visual explanations from deep networks via
gradient-based localization, in Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on com-
puter vision , 618–626.
53
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 54 =====
Simonyan, Karen, and Andrew Zisserman, 2015, Very deep convolutional networks for large-
scale image recognition, in ICLR.
Srivastava, Nitish, Geoﬀrey Hinton, Alex Krizhevsky, Ilya Sutskever, and Ruslan Salakhut-
dinov, 2014, Dropout: A Simple Way to Prevent Neural Networks from Overﬁtting, The
Journal of Machine Learning Research 15, 1929–1958.
Sullivan, Ryan, Allan Timmermann, and Halbert White, 1999, Data-snooping, technical trad-
ing rule performance, and the bootstrap, The journal of Finance 54, 1647–1691.
Viola, Paul, and Michael Jones, 2001, Rapid object detection using a boosted cascade of
simple features, in Proceedings of the 2001 IEEE computer society conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition. CVPR 2001 , volume 1, I–I, IEEE.
Zeiler, Matthew D, and Rob Fergus, 2014, Visualizing and understanding convolutional net-
works, in European conference on computer vision, 818–833, Springer.
Zhu, Yingzi, and Guofu Zhou, 2009, Technical analysis: An asset allocation perspective on
the use of moving averages, Journal of Financial Economics 92, 519–544.
54
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 55 =====
Internet Appendix
A Classiﬁcation Accuracy and Sharpe Ratio
A frequently referenced result of Campbell and Thompson (2008) maps predictive regression
R2 to Sharpe ratio gains for market timing strategies. This mapping is motivated by the fact
that “R2 statistics are small in magnitude. This raises the important question of whether
they are economically meaningful.”
The same question applies to classiﬁcation accuracy statistics reported in Section 4.2. In
this section, we illustrate the mapping from gains in classiﬁcation accuracy to improvements
in timing strategy Sharpe ratios, in analogy withR2 result of Campbell and Thompson (2008).
We assume that in each periodt, data for returnsrt and a predictive classiﬁerxt are drawn
from a bivariate normal distribution
(rt,x t)′∼N (µ, Σ)
where
µ = (0, 0)′, and Σ =
(
1 ρ
ρ 1
)
.
That the variables are individually standard normal is without loss of generality as location
and scale shifts cancel out in the portfolio analysis. We deﬁne the classiﬁer such that x >0
indicates a positive return prediction.
Population accuracy corresponds to
Acc(ρ) = E[1r>01x>0 + 1r≤01x≤0] = Φ[(0, 0)′;ρ] + ˜Φ[(0, 0)′;ρ]
where Φ and ˜Φ are the cumulative and counter-cumulative distribution functions for the
bivariate normal.
In parallel, consider a trading strategy that invests +1 units in the asset when the classiﬁer
signals a positive return and −1 otherwise (zero forecasts can be allocated to either long or
short trades since a zero has no probability mass in this example). The population Sharpe
ratio of this strategy is
Acc(ρ) = E[r1x>0−r1x≤0]/σ(r1x>0−r1x≤0)
which is unaﬀected by the scale of r and x and depends only on their correlation.
Mapping between Acc(ρ) and SR(ρ) works as follows. For any given level of accuracy, a,
solve for ρ(a) = Acc−1(a), and evaluate the Sharpe ratio at this inferred level of correlation.
55
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 56 =====
Figure 14: Classiﬁcation Accuracy and Sharpe Ratio
0.5 0.505 0.51 0.515 0.52 0.525 0.53
Accuracy
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5Annualized Sharpe Ratio
Note: The ﬁgure shows the mapping from 20-day return classiﬁcation accuracy to market timing annualized
Sharpe ratio in the bivariate normal example.
Finally, we must account for the frequency of observations. Intuitively, the more frequently
you can bet at a given level of accuracy, the better the strategy does over a given time horizon.
Deﬁning K to be the number of periods per year, the annualized Sharpe ratio as a function
of accuracy is then √
KSR (Acc−1(a)).
Figure 14 plots this function using a range of accuracies suggested by the Table 2 estimates
for 20-day returns (corresponding to K = 12). The ﬁgure indicates that for monthly signals,
every 0.5% increase in accuracy translates into a 0.1 increase in annualized Sharpe ratio.
The derivation in this stylized example show how seemingly small gains in classiﬁcation
accuracy translate into large improvements in trading strategy performance.
B Robustness
B.1 Sensitivity to Data Choices, Model Structure, and Estimation Methods
In this section we conduct a number of sensitivity analyses. We report classiﬁcation accuracy
and annualized Sharpe ratios for long-short decile strategies (using equal and value weights).
We focus on the 20-day return horizon and use images of 5, 20, and 60 days. In all sensitivity
analyses, the baseline version of each variation is listed ﬁrst and shown in bold.
First, in Table 17, we consider how model performance is aﬀected by excluding volume
56
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 57 =====
Table 17: Sensitivity to Data Augmentation
I5R20 I20R20 I60R20
Sharpe Ratio Sharpe Ratio Sharpe Ratio
Acc. EW VW Acc. EW VW Acc. EW VW
Baseline 0.513 2.35 0.45 0.525 2.16 0.49 0.530 1.29 0.17
VB/MA no VB, MA 0.506 2.42 0.55 0.509 1.03 -0.03 0.502 0.79 0.13
VB, no MA 0.515 2.52 0.79 0.517 1.72 0.40 0.528 1.06 0.09
no VB, no MA 0.506 2.51 0.64 0.499 0.99 0.23 0.511 0.67 0.17
Return Filter 10% 0.521 2.49 0.57 0.526 1.99 0.24 0.533 1.18 0.23
20% 0.524 2.29 0.56 0.532 1.55 0.02 0.534 1.25 0.21
30% 0.529 2.32 0.61 0.538 1.62 0.27 0.535 0.91 0.14
40% 0.540 2.17 0.72 0.544 1.23 -0.02 0.547 0.77 0.26
50% 0.549 1.94 0.46 0.551 1.25 -0.01 0.546 0.85 0.11
Largest Stocks 4000 0.536 1.67 0.52 0.526 0.85 0.35 0.524 0.21 0.16
for Training 2000 0.546 1.16 0.64 0.537 0.44 0.42 0.529 -0.10 -0.13
Note: This table reports model performance sensitivity to data variations. “VB/MA” reports the eﬀect of
excluding volume bars and/or the moving average price curve from images. “Return Filter” reports the eﬀect
of excluding x% of return with the smallest volatility-scaled returns in the training samples. “Largest Stocks
for Training” reports the eﬀect of training using only the top 4,000 or 2,000 ﬁrms in a training sample. The
baseline version is listed ﬁrst and shown in bold; it includes both VB and MA, uses a return ﬁlter of 0%,
and uses all stocks with no size cutoﬀ. We report classiﬁcation accuracy and annualized Sharpe ratios for
long-short decile strategies (using equal and value weights). Models are based on a 20-day return horizon and
use images of 5, 20, and 60 days.
bars (VB) or moving average price curve (MA) from images. We report classiﬁcation accuracy
and annualized Sharpe ratios for long-short decile strategies (using equal and value weights).
We focus on the 20-day return horizon and use images of 5, 20, and 60 days. We ﬁnd that for
small images (5 days), there is some gain (especially in value weight strategies) to omitting
volume and moving average price. For 20-day and 60-day images, however, excluding volume
and moving average information is detrimental to model performance. A possible reason for
that is moving average lines create more noise than information in 5-day images, but this is
not an issue for 20 and 60-day images.
In some applications, removing observations that are close to the classiﬁcation boundary
(i.e., returns near zero in our case) helps to de-noise the training data and improve out-
of-sample performance. We consider ﬁltering the training data to remove observations that
have small returns relative to their volatility. In particular, we look at estimation variants
that remove the smallest 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, or 50% of volatility-scaled returns from the
training sample. We ﬁnd that this de-noising degrades model performance in general, though
for 5-day images there are small beneﬁts to using a mild ﬁlter.
Likewise, in the spirit of de-noising in training, we explore whether there are beneﬁts to
excluding the smallest stocks from the training sample, as these tend to be less liquid, more
57
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 58 =====
Table 18: Sensitivity to Model Structure and Estimation, I20R20
Loss Acc. Correlation Sharpe Ratio
V T V T Spearman Pearson EW VW
Baseline 0.687 0.690 0.542 0.533 0.059 0.034 2.16 0.49
Filters (64) 32 0.687 0.690 0.543 0.534 0.058 0.033 2.00 0.28
128 0.689 0.691 0.538 0.530 0.054 0.031 1.85 0.40
Layers (3) 2 0.688 0.690 0.541 0.534 0.054 0.030 1.77 0.33
4 0.688 0.691 0.541 0.531 0.052 0.031 2.14 0.22
Dropout (0.50) 0.00 0.697 0.693 0.532 0.528 0.047 0.027 2.14 0.59
0.25 0.689 0.692 0.541 0.528 0.055 0.032 2.31 0.51
0.75 0.688 0.691 0.540 0.530 0.053 0.030 1.47 0.16
BN (yes) no 0.685 0.691 0.550 0.532 0.062 0.037 2.33 0.51
Xavier (yes) no 0.688 0.692 0.541 0.527 0.056 0.032 2.08 0.44
Activation (LReLU) ReLU 0.688 0.691 0.540 0.531 0.053 0.029 1.49 0.23
Max-pool Size (2×1) (2 ×2) 0.689 0.691 0.536 0.531 0.053 0.029 1.62 0.32
FilterSize (5×3) (3 ×3) 0.690 0.691 0.536 0.530 0.051 0.027 1.53 0.16
(7×3) 0.689 0.691 0.537 0.531 0.053 0.030 1.84 0.09
Dilation/Stride (2,1)/(3,1) (2,1)/(1,1) 0.692 0.692 0.533 0.523 0.047 0.028 2.20 0.26
(1,1)/(3,1) 0.689 0.691 0.540 0.532 0.057 0.032 2.00 0.30
(1,1)/(1,1) 0.693 0.693 0.534 0.521 0.051 0.029 1.80 0.25
Note: This table reports model performance sensitivity to model and estimation variations including the
number of ﬁlters in the ﬁrst layer (equal to 64 in baseline model), number of convolutional layers (baseline 3),
dropout probability (baseline 0.50), use of batch normalization (BN, baseline yes), use Xavier initialization
(baseline yes), activation function (baseline leaky ReLU), size of max-pooling layers (baseline (2,1)), ﬁlter
size (baseline 5×3 pixels), and combinations of dilation and stride (baseline (2,1) and (3,1)). The columns
show cross-entropy loss and prediction accuracy on the validation set (V) and the out-of-sample test set (T),
out-of-sample Spearman and Pearson correlations, and annualized decile spread Sharpe Ratio with equal and
value weights.
volatile, and heavier tailed. Across the board we ﬁnd no beneﬁts in model performance to
limiting stocks to the top 4,000 or top 2,000 stocks during training.
In Table 18, we explore performance sensitivity to various dimensions of model structure
and estimation choices. We report sensitivity in terms of loss function value, classiﬁcation
accuracy, average cross-sectional correlation of forecasts with return realizations (both Pearson
and Spearman rank correlation), and annualized Sharpe ratios for long-short decile strategies.
For loss and accuracy, we report statistics for both the validation (V) and test (T) samples.
Correlations and Sharpe ratios are for the test sample only.
First, we report the eﬀect of varying the number of ﬁlters in the ﬁrst layer of the CNN
from 64 down to 32 or up to 128. We see that model performance is fairly insensitive to the
number of ﬁlters. Next, we increase/decrease the number of convolution layers from 3 to 2
or 4. Decreasing the number of ﬁlters meaningfully reduces the performance of the model in
terms of predictive correlations and trading performance (but has little detectable eﬀect on
58
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 59 =====
Figure 15: HAAR-like Features
Note: This ﬁgure shows the ﬁve types of HAAR-like features. Each type corresponds to a feature calculated
by taking the diﬀerences between the sum of pixels over red and green regions.
loss and accuracy). The model is essentially unchanged if we lower the dropout probability,
though raising it to 0.75 produces a noticeable loss in performance. Performance is insensitive
to omitting the batch normalization step or Xavier initialization, but we see a loss in trading
strategy performance when we transition from leaky ReLU to ReLU. Changing the max-
pooling size from (2×1) to (2×2) reduces the performance signiﬁcantly. Either smaller ﬁlters
or larger ﬁlters hurt performance. Finally, we notice some loss in performance when we alter
dilation, though the results in this dimension are mixed.
Overall, the broad conclusion of this analysis is that our main results are robust to alter-
native modeling choices.
B.2 Comparison With Other Computer Vision Models
In this subsection, we compare CNN to two classical visual recognition methods, namely,
Adaboost with HAAR-like Features by Viola and Jones (2001) and Histogram of Oriented
Gradients (HOG) by Dalal and Triggs (2005), both of which are widely used precursors to
CNN. A distinction between CNN and these methods is that CNN need little or no data pre-
processing and automatically extract features from the data, while features in the precursor
algorithms are hand-engineered. Indeed, neither method works directly with raw pixel images
at all; instead they rely on pre-selected features extracted from the pixels, in contrast to CNN.
B.2.1 Adaboost with HAAR-like Features
HAAR-like features are ﬁrst introduced in Papageorgiou et al. (1998), which later gained
popularity due to its widely adopted applications in real-time face detection proposed by
Viola and Jones (2001). The HAAR-like features are reminiscent of HAAR basis functions
in rectangle shapes, which manage to capture the diﬀerences in intensity within a region of
image. For example, when used for face detection, it is shown in Viola and Jones (2001) that
certain HAAR-like features learn that the region of eyes is darker than the region of the nose
and cheeks.
There are ﬁve types of rectangles, as illustrated in Figure 15, colored in red and green,
respectively. A feature is constructed by taking the diﬀerence between the total sums of the
59
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 60 =====
pixels from two colored rectangular regions of a detection window. Because the detection
window slides over the entire image and its size can vary arbitrarily within the image, the
total number of features constructed is massive. Speciﬁcally, there are over 100K features for
a 5-day image of size 32× 15, 7 million for a 20-day image of size 64× 60, and 140 million for
a 60-day image of size 96× 180. Most of these features are either useless or redundant.
To combine these features, Viola and Jones (2001) adopt a boosting algorithm, Adaboost
ﬁrst introduced by Freund and Schapire (1995), that incorporates an increasing number of
weak learners, which in this case are individual features themselves. The ﬁnal output of the
algorithm is a classiﬁcation probability by (weighted) voting from selected weak learners.
B.2.2 Histogram of Oriented Gradients (HOG)
Similarly, the HOG method creates features from the input image by extracting the distribu-
tion (histograms) of directions of gradients (oriented gradients) at each pixel. As coordinates
of pixels in an image are discreet, the horizontal gradient of that pixel is simply deﬁned as
the color diﬀerence between the adjacent pixels on the left and right (denoted as gx) and the
vertical gradient as the color diﬀerence between the adjacent pixels on the top and bottom
of it (denoted as gy).16 Only four neighboring pixels are need to calculate the gradient for
each centered pixel whose value is not used. The magnitude of the gradient vector is given
by|g| =√g2
x +g2
y and the direction by Θ g =arctan(gy/gx). Intuitively,|gx| detects vertical
edges, where there is substantial diﬀerence between the left and right pixels, and similarly|gy|
for horizontal edges. As a result, |g| detects regions of abrupt intensity changes, e.g., edges
and corners, and Θ g detects the orientations.
The resulting gradients are grouped into bins (like a histogram) and their summary statis-
tics based on these bins are used as features. We follow the canonical approach by dividing
the image into many cells of 8× 8 pixels and creating a feature for each cell. An 8× 8 cell has
64 values of gradient magnitude and 64 values of gradient direction. Using the histogram of
gradients, these 128 values are summarized by a 9-dimensional vector. 17 The HOG algorithm
therefore eﬀectively reduces the dimension of input variables and potentially improves the
model’s out of sample performance. In total, there are 192 features for 5-day images, 2,464
features for 20-day images, and 12,320 features for 60-day images. If the direction is between
two bins (e.g. 15 between 0 and 20), then the votes is divided proportionally to each bins (1/4
16The HOG algorithm also supports colored images (e.g. RGB channels) but we focus our discussion on
grey-scale images here.
17The histogram of all pixels in each cell is based on 9 bins corresponding to angles ranging from 0 to 180.
The angles range from 0 to 180 instead of 360, the gradients are called ”unsigned” gradients (a gradient and
the other 180 degrees opposite to it are considered the same). We follow this tradition and use unsigned
gradients. For each pixel’s gradient g, Θg determines which bins get a share of the value|g|. Often Θ g falls in
between two bins, sharing the votes. The resulting feature is a size 9 vector.
60
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 61 =====
to 0 and 3/4 to 20). Finally, the histogram represented by the vector of size 9 is generated
for each cell of pixel size 8 × 8. See Figure 16 for a detailed example. In the original paper,
histograms are also normalized within each block consisting of 2× 2 cells. We follow the same
setting in our feature generating process. The total number of features is not excessive, we
thus directly use these features in a logistic regression to classify the images.
Figure 16: A Detailed Procedure to Generate HOG
Note: For simplicity, this toy example shows the histogram from a cell of pixels size 4 × 4. The gradient
magnitude of each pixel is divided proportionally to the bin(s) according to the gradient direction. Note that
angle 170 lies between angle 160 and angle 0.
One thing to note here is that in the original HOG paper, SVM is used as the classiﬁer.
However, since we need a probability distribution of up and down moves to form the long-
short portfolio, we replace SVM by logistic regression, a more intuitive classiﬁer that directly
outputs an “up” probability. In fact, we also implemented a HOG model with SVM and use
the distance to the hyperplane as an alternative to up probability. The portfolio performance
is inferior to the model with logistic regression. As a result, we only report the performance
of HOG model with logistic regression.
To ensure a fair comparison, the same setup of our CNN model is applied to these bench-
61
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 62 =====
Table 19: Comparison of Sharpe Ratios Across Computer Vision Models
Variants CNN HOG HAAR CNN HOG HAAR CNN HOG HAAR
I5/R5 I5/R20 I5/R60
EW 7.15 4.11 3.62 2.35 1.59 1.26 1.30 0.58 0.34
VW 1.49 0.73 0.37 0.45 0.60 0.13 0.47 0.31 0.30
I20/R5 I20/R20 I20/R60
EW 6.75 2.87 2.25 2.16 0.84 0.64 0.37 0.57 0.03
VW 1.74 0.30 0.35 0.49 0.15 -0.20 0.32 0.44 0.06
I60/R5 I60/R20 I60/R60
EW 4.89 1.91 0.45 1.29 1.17 0.35 0.43 0.64 0.09
VW 1.44 0.36 0.46 0.17 0.19 0.30 0.23 0.11 -0.15
Note: The table compares long-short decile spread portfolio returns with equal weights (EW) and value weights
(VW) based on predictions from CNN, HOG, and HAAR models.
mark models. Speciﬁcally, all models are trained with the same training dataset of CNN
model. In addition, for the HOG model, 5 models are trained independently to form an en-
semble model. As for the HAAR-like model, since Adaboost is already an ensemble model
(with 50 weak learners), it is not necessary to apply additional ensembling.
For the HOG model, there are 192 features for 5-day images, 2,464 features for 20-day
images, and 12,320 features for 60-day images. Due to the large size of the training data,
the model is trained with stochastic gradient descent that minimize the log loss, which gives
logistic regression. L2 norm is used as regularizer with optimal coeﬃcient selected from 0.001,
0.0001, and 0.00001. Finally, 2/7 of the training data are set aside to be used for early stopping
that stop the training process after 2 epochs without loss decreasing.
As for the model on HAAR-like features, recall that there are 142 , 654, 368 HAAR-like
features in a 60-day image of size 96 × 180. It is impossible to enumerate all those features
and use them for training. Due to limitation in time and computing power, we have to use a
heuristic method to generate most important HAAR-like features. One popular approach to
select top HAAR-like features is to train an Adaboost model on only part of training data and
select features with the highest feature importance. Since the pixel images are very sparse,
to further speed up the process, we also resize the images to smaller sizes before extracting
features. We keep the size 32× 15 of 5-day images but shrinks the size of 20-day images from
64×60 to 22×22, and the size of 60-day images from 96×180 to 16×30. After the resizing, the
total number of HAAR-like features are 112392, 114433, and 112606 for 5/20/60-day images
respectively. For each model, we randomly sample 10k images and train an Adaboost model
on all features and select the top 100 features with the highest feature importance. Then we
generate the above 100 top features for all images and train an Adaboost model with 50 weak
62
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 63 =====
learners (decision stumps).
Table 19 compares the performance of decile H-L portfolios from CNN, HAAR, and HOG
models. In general, CNN outperforms both HOG and HAAR with few exceptions of strategies
for longer horizons.
C Monte Carlo Simulations
This section conducts simulation experiments to investigate the ﬁnite sample performance of
the CNN classiﬁer.
C.1 Simulating Images
To create images we simulate price trajectories at a 5-minute frequency, from which we obtain
daily open, close, high, and low prices.
Throughout the experiments, we consider two speciﬁc patterns, Head and Shoulders Top
(HNST) and Head and Shoulders Bottom (HNSB). In technical analysis, HNST is believed
to indicate short-term reversal from an upward trend into a downward trend, i.e. prices are
likely to drop following HNST. In the other direction, HNSB is believed to predict a future
rise in prices.
The functional form for HNST is:
fhnst(x) =



x, if 0≤x< 1/8
−x + 1/4, if 1/8≤x< 1/4
x− 1/4, if 1/4≤x< 1/2
−x + 3/4, if 1/2≤x< 3/4
x− 3/4, if 3/4≤x< 7/8
−x + 1, o/w
, (2)
where x∈ [0, 1]. The functional form of HNSB negates the sign on the right hand side of
equation 2. These patterns are shown in Figure 17.
To generate price trajectories with these patterns, we simulate the logarithm of the price
as a mean-reverting process over [0,T ]:
rpattern
t+k∆ :=ppattern
t+k∆ −ppattern
t+(k−1)∆ =κ(¯rt+k∆−ppattern
t+(k−1)∆)∆ +σ
√
∆εt+k∆, k = 0, 1, 2,..., 78,
(3)
where ppattern
0 = 0, σ is drawn from U(0.2, 0.6) and ﬁxed for each image but diﬀer across
images, ∆ is the sampling frequency (ﬁxed at every 5 minutes), εt+k∆∼N (0, 1), κ = 50/T ,
63
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 64 =====
Figure 17: Linear Functions of HNST and HNSB Patterns
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
(a) HNST
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
−0.25
−0.20
−0.15
−0.10
−0.05
0.00 (b) HNSB
T = 20/252 for 20-day samples (or 60 /252 for 60 days), 18 and ¯rt+k∆ is the mean level on
timestamp t +k∆ that satisﬁes
¯rt+k∆ = 3σ
√
Tf pattern((t +k∆)/T ).
For price trajectories without any patterns, we simply simulate a geometric Brownian
motion without any drift:
rnoise
t+k∆ :=pnoise
t+k∆−pnoise
t+(k−1)∆ =σ
√
∆εt+k∆, k = 0, 1, 2,..., 78. (4)
Since pt is the logarithm of price, 1 + pnoise
t+k∆ =∑t+k∆
s=0 rs produces cumulative returns that
appear in the image. See Figure 18 for examples of 20-day and 60-day images with and without
HNS patterns.
C.2 Experiment Results
Return prediction is a rather challenging problem because the signal-to-noise ratio is notorious
low. The objective of our simulations is to demonstrate how CNN models recognize patterns
and make correct predictions in environments with various signal-to-noise ratios.
We start with experiments in which only one pattern (HNST or HNSB) exists in the data.
We then consider experiments with both patterns included so as to check whether a CNN
18Because these pattern cannot be shown on a 5-day image, our simulations focus on 20-day and 60-day
images.
64
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 65 =====
Figure 18: Examples of Simulated Images
(a) Pure Noise Image
 (b) An HNST Image
 (c) An HNSB Image
Note: For each subﬁgure, at the top is the simulated image for 20 days and at the bottom is for 60 days.
model can recognize multiple co-existing patterns.
We conduct 100 independent experiments. In each experiment, we generate 10,000 pat-
terned images. In the case both HNSB and HNST are included in the data, each group has
5,000 images. We then generate many more noise images such that the proportion reaches a
pre-determined amount, e.g., 99.0%. We then assign “up” labels for HNST images, “down” for
HNSB ones, and random “up” or “down” labels to noise images (with 50% probability). This
approach controls the signal-to-noise ratio in our prediction exercise. For example, if there are
99% noise images and 1% HNST patterned images, the actual probability of an “up” move
is (99/2 + 1)% = 50.5%. As the portion of noise images increases, the signal-to-noise ratio
diminishes.
We maintain the same architecture design of the CNN models as in our empirical study,
including 3 layers for 20-day images and 4 for 60-day ones, doubling the number of channels
from bottom to top, except that we decrease the number of initial channels from 64 to 8 (and
so on for subsequent layers), because our simulation setting is more stylized. The training
algorithm is identical to what we use empirically, except that we increase the initial learning
rate to 10 −4 to speed up the process. Throughout all experiments, we divide all images
proportionally to form the training, validation, and testing datasets, which are split according
to 6 : 2 : 2 ratios.
Figure 19 plots the average prediction accuracy on patterned images and noise images on
the testing sets, respectively, against the portion of noise images in the data. We ﬁnd that
for both 20-day and 60-day models, the prediction accuracy is always indistinguishable from
a random guess (0.5) for noise images and reaches nearly 100% on HNST and HNSB images
as long as the portion of noise images drops below 99 .0%, regardless of whether only a single
65
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 66 =====
Figure 19: Accuracy vs Noise Ratio in Simulation
0.990 0.992 0.994 0.996 0.998 0.999
Noise Ratio
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0Accuracy
20-Day Images (HNST)
20-Day HNST
20-Day Noise
0.990 0.992 0.994 0.996 0.998 0.999
Noise Ratio
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0Accuracy
60-Day Images (HNST)
60-Day HNST
60-Day Noise
(a) Predictive accuracy for models trained with dataset that includes only HNST
0.990 0.992 0.994 0.996 0.9980.999
Noise Ratio
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0Accuracy
20-Day Images (HNST and HNSB)
20-Day HNST
20-Day HNSB
20-Day Noise
0.990 0.992 0.994 0.996 0.9980.999
Noise Ratio
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0Accuracy
60-Day Images (HNST and HNSB)
60-Day HNST
60-Day HNSB
60-Day Noise
(b) Predictive accuracy for models trained with dataset that includes both HNST and HNSB
Note: For each subﬁgure, the left plot shows the simulation result for the 20-day model and the right plot
shows that for the 60-day model. The x-axis is the noise ratio in the training set. The accuracy obtained from
the OOS testing set that consists of all noise images, all HNST images, or all HNSB images. The number of
Monte Carlo repetitions is 100.
pattern (top panel) or both patterns (bottom panel) are included in the datasets.
This suggests that the CNN model achieves nearly perfect recognition power on patterned
images while remaining indiﬀerent to noise ones, even though the whole dataset consists only
1% images with patterns. When only a single pattern HNST is included in the training set,
with a 99.8% portion of noise images, the predictive accuracy is still as high as 0.88 for the 20-
day model and 0.81 for the 60-day model. Not surprisingly, models trained with both HNST
66
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587
===== PAGE 67 =====
and HNSB images (Figure 19b) perform slightly worse than models trained with HNST images
alone (Figure 19a), because the number of patterned images is halved for either group.
67
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756587